you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you and you you you you you you you servers, write different depend points and perform all of your current operations. So let us now move forward and see what express is. So if you go into the documentation of express, you will find out these four features over here. They have mentioned that what exactly you can do is express. Okay. So the simple thing is web applications, right? So the first thing that will help you to do is mostly very very suitable and efficient for creating web applications with web servers. Even if you are creating a mobile app, it is very kind of application. Express will help to maintain your server, whatever server you want to create. It was a file. Server will live on the cloud. Server will live on the cloud. So server will live on the cloud. So server will live on the cloud. So server will live on the cloud. So after that, helps you to create ads. So in our previous sessions in our React course or different courses, we have talked about ads. But then you only learn how to use ads. You have to get the data from ads. You have to use the methods from ads and things like that. But in this particular prefer actually helps you to build your own ad. So you can create a new page and create a new page. You can add the data logic on what is actually will happen when you click on that particular route or that important page. After that, first, very very performant. So as we understood in the previous session that we have asynchronous programming with jas. Basically, jas. The mind with Express is a very good combination. Your server is your entire team. They won't super fast. I can add this important thing, which is very very important and super useful, which are called mental layers. Now what I'm going to do is we'll come to this today and see what exactly is a mental layer. All right. Perfect. So there are these four important features of Express that you will get to see. But yeah, enough talk. Let's basically start. Let's just see how this particular framework works. The first thing that you have to do is in this document only, you will find this combined. It says, 88, which is not in Express. Right. But the one actually going on, it's not in Express. What we'll do is we'll move forward over here and close on this. And create one particular directory that we call this has class 2. We'll call this Express. Okay. Now, whenever we have various dark server side, there are something that we need to take care of. And the first thing that we need to do is we need to move forward inside this, we'll create one directory. Let me call this as server. All the server side, we'll add key inside this for you to be very, very clear. Okay. Perfect. Now what we'll do, inside server, before installing any external package, we have to make sure that that initialize a array di-informat. Right. So the key initialize, what we'll do is we use this particular combined, it says, npm in it. Right. What we'll do, it will say initialize the environment for you, but package. Okay. So the first thing that we'll do is, as soon as you have written this command, press enter, and here it will ask you for many different questions. You just have to answer those. Right. So the first question is asking is what should be a package name. So by default, the package name is taken from the directory that you're working with. That is why the default name is server. If you want, you can change it, but not recommend it. Whatever is your directory name can be your server's name, by things. Okay. Move forward. If you want to define a specific version, because of course, every time I'll make it change, right. Hello. My question you're even. What do you understand by 1.0.0? Explain all the three digits. 1.0.0. What are these three digits? What are they starting from? One is for it. One is for it. One is for it. Maybe you don't know what is for it. Maybe you don't know what is for it. Maybe you don't know what is for it. Maybe you don't know what is for it. Maybe you don't know what is for it. Oh. I got a page. Page. Page. Is this kind of version that you're actually known as? You know what? Cement equals it. Okay, guess very easily. Simple. So we know there are two digits. The first digit starts from any major reference that you're assuming. So, you can add a version, if you want to add any description, you can add that completely textual description of the server, what the server does, why is it created, anything, you can add, I will leave a empty right now, entry point, now this is important, okay. So, whenever you are creating a server, any add tabs is like when you create an entire application, there is one main file from where you start everything, right. You have different components, you have different design files, you have different javascript files, you have different JSON files, different things you have in that particular project, but it is one file from where you started everything, right. What is that file when you work with the app? Sorry, yeah, exactly, right. The main dot JSON, it's the main dot JSON, right. Similarly, I think we know we are looking at servers, servers will have a lot of files as well, right. In our next session, we are talking about models, builds, there are so many things that they are the server. Right. So, it is also important that this server should also have an entry point file, from where everything starts, right. So, you can again change the name of this, but not in the method, right? Why not? Right, yes, because this is a globally acquired connection. So, whenever you are working on a big team, right? Most of your projects will have this particular file as the entry point to them. So, that is why it is easier to find, because everyone has this image.gc.nl, and you will move to the board base, where you will find this file first. So, that is why keep the name as index.js, don't change this, and we will move forward. Test command, you can leave this, get repository, we have already initialized. Key words, if you want to add, you can, right? All of these things are in our descriptions, if you want to add, you can add. Right? And then, it will ask, is this okay? And we will write it down. Okay? As soon as it is done, you can see one package.js on file is created. So, it is just go to this, and we will just check everything. Right? All the details that you have added are now, okay. And whatever dependencies you are going to install, as I will install, express icon. Right? The way you are going to use my express will be, don't look very tight here. You will install anything, everything is going to look very tight here. Just to maintain that, what exactly your project uses. Okay? Okay. So, now, our first setup is done. Now, the next thing you already know what to do. Pick up the command, npm install, express, move back, and install this, also. Okay. Okay. Like to it package, it is done. Now, how to use this? Okay. So, first of all, from our previous session, if you remember, we created a simple server, like with the HTTP module. Would they look up HTTP module, then I can just method, create a server, request a service, and all of these. Similarly, with Express, you can create a server like this. Okay. So, now, first of all, we have to see how to create the servers. So, inside the server, what we will do, what was our entry point file? Inlet.js. So, over here, you don't get it created.com, I will tell you. Okay. Over here, most of the things I have, my only one, you have to do things. Okay. So, the first file that you are going to create inside server.js, server is inlet. Okay. So, over here, done. All right. Now, here we will start with the first server. So, let's look, now we will see. So, we will go back to Express over here, and we see that they have given some code right now. And, basics, never. Maybe I will also show you that Express can also be found inside the NPN directory. Every NPN package is fine inside NPN directory. This is Express. Okay. So, first of all, what we will do, we have already installed Express. Now, first thing, here you are not what we will do, as we have installed a package, we need to import it. So, let's import. So, over here, we will do const. Express is required Express. Okay. Now, what? Express. This entire variable, I mean, when you do require Express, a function is returned inside it. Right. A function. Now, you have to execute that function. So, you have to do something like this. Express. Execute. You have to execute it. Express. And, as soon as I see that entire function, the data is returned. All the methods, all the properties, every particular thing that you can use in this network. Right. But, you get something from a function. You get something returned from the function. What do we know? What do we need to do? We need to hold this in a variable. And, the convention over here is using const. That is why whenever you go to the documentation, you will see this constant app. And, as soon as I use the app, I will press . That expression. You will now be able to execute the entire expression here. So, you can see the entire express file is over here and all of these particular methods, all of these particular properties whatever you can use most of them are from express. So, I just show you the first method right now which is app.listen. In a previous example, you can see that we will use a method to start this over to assign it a code. So, here is where we have app.listen and it works exactly in the same way. We will assign this with the 48003 or whatever code you want to assign it. So, I will complete it up to you and then we will do a simple console or a tool of brushes you make. We will startaround it. goatsnightenliche.js and we will open... nuucho. So, how do we startabyte? how do we start a null 5? No index? You see, so well, let me just have a result. Okay, now what to do next? If I go to 8000, 3 right now, will I get anything by? Okay, I can not get anything. Why is this? Yeah, I am going to be doing not return the response for the request. But that's for me, I will be doing the document with 8000 team. Any request? Any request? What is that here? You are making a first request. Yes, for that particular request, we have not defined a response that we have done. So for that, now we have to understand how to write different routes and how to handle requests and responses. Okay, so now over here, you can do four different operations. If there is a word, whatever you are doing, generally you can tone down each and everything, four different operations. And what are those four different operations? Either you are reading something, either you are creating something, maybe you are updating something or first you are getting something. Okay, whatever logic you are writing, whatever things you are doing, there are at least you are doing these four operations only, you are going to be trying it out. So now we have expressed that we have done very different routes, we have done different 8 points, which we are going to do these four operations. And even these four operations, whenever we are using these four operations, and we are writing, express routes, then we start with one particular thing, which is on as, create a, best ideas. And then you can write a, best ideas, what are those four different operations? Okay, so for writing, let's now go a little bit about rest in here. Okay, so we will move forward to Google and over here you can just search about rest in the case. Okay, and we can open up any particular vlog that you were filming. Alright, wait, wait. of this, before. Yes, perfect, right? So you don't actually need to be too diagetic about the state base. For now, these four lines, or maybe just these two lines, three lines, will actually help you to understand what state base. So, oh, here you can see that they are okay. So, you can come in everything, you know what the reforms are, right? We present the external state transfer to total, right? Or representational state transfer APR. We don't get anything out of it. So, first of all, we'll have to understand that what exactly will be made by rest? So, the first thing that is important for rest is that they should be a clinic, and they should be a server. These two things. And we should establish communication between them. First rule of rest. Second rule is that communication should happen in one particular format, right? And typically that format is JSON. So, the line will be there, the server will be there, and the communication format will be JSON. These are the rules of rest, right? If everything is aligned, then you have to take rest in here, okay? Right, so, the communication format should be JSON, okay? And the entire protocol for communication that should be used will be HDD. Four things, okay? Line server, protocol, HDD, communication format, please. These rules are important. After that, anything that you do? Now, with using all these HDD methods like, get post input patch and delete, you can do all kinds of operations that could happen. Okay? So, if we are now moving forward for reading, we have, we get one HDD method, which is yet for creating something, we get one HDD method post. For updating something, we actually get two methods, right? One is put and one is patch. And for deleting, the method is B. Okay? So, now we move forward and we will see how we create different routes. So, we can make it with the line server and we see all these methods, one by one, get post delete patch. Okay? So, the first thing that we're going to start with is just reading some data, getting some data, okay? So, do this, you have to use app and app gives you access to all these methods. So, if I have not yet, I'm actually trying to access a resource from the server. Okay? And for now, I will just write the route over here to the home route. And default. So, this particular route will be for hitting on 8000. Okay? Now, as this is a request, as this is one particular route, this comes up with the callback question, which again manages request and response and done. Okay? Simple as that. Okay? From very exactly looking, okay? What will you do the request? What will you do the rest of this? So, okay. Let's now move forward and see what happens. So, over here, I'll just write console. Hello from the server. How would I? Now, let's see if I hit on that particular route, you can do a good deed to the response line. Still not getting the response line. Why? Yeah. Because, everything you're making a note server or an express server, like, I did my server is running. And, there's a changes. What will I have to do these times? Now, this is a thing. And, then, I'm getting even a small change, you have to restart it several times. So, what do we do this to avoid this entire change? We have one NPM tool again, which will help you to always restart your server whenever you make a change. So, you don't have to go back terminal, start the server with the command, don't have to go like this, whatever that, like, it will be there completely. The name is node mon, generally, it starts for node mon and gray. So, we're going to use this particular node, very, very easy to use. And, if you see so many downloads are there. Near about 91 lakh weekly downloads. Very highly used, very good. So, we'll quickly be using this. And, how to install this? We'll pick up NPM I node one. And, we install it with our server. Right. Now, how to use node mon? This is important. So, do not have to server with node mon. First of all, you have to execute node one. So, let's execute it with NPM X. And, here, we add node mon. NPM X. Okay. After this, you just have to add the name of your N3.5, which is index. Add this and done. Okay. Nias here server has started. But, this time, you have started server with node one. So, every time you are going to make a change, node one will automatically restart. Right. Let me show this to you. So, over here, if I say hello from, maybe I change the 2 my server. Even a small change. Right. You see, server is not here. All right. That means, every time you change, every time you make a change, change, genius will be in great level. Okay, simple tool. Now let us see if our server is responding back with this response and we go back and we press enter. Okay, not working. There will be some internet issue just a second. Oh sorry we have console work. We have to send back the response. Response dot, over here in express we have response dot send as a method. So we will add response work, send, not send. So we have to go back and refresh and we are getting our response. We are letting our power stride if you see. Where we hit on the homepage and we get back the response. But now what next? Now let us try to see how to perform different algorithms. We will be discussing get a little more, right? Because not only can we get only on the page and give you a response and give you a much more. Okay. So let me take you to one particular website. And with the help of that particular website we will try to figure out exactly how things are going. And the website is going to be this one. Scalar topics. Right. When I joined the website, I was putting it to both of them. So if you go to scale topics right now you will find out that there are a lot of things that is going on over here. So why did we create this website? This one is entirely free website. Where you can access different courses, different articles, different blogs, different different things, education, right? But you can take education. You will find out that it is a resupprations, maybe it is a data site, but it is a database. Everything is so free. So now over here I just want to show you something. Let's say I want to view all. And first of all I want to do my courses. Right. So if I go to these courses you will find out that there are a lot and lot of courses. But I want to focus on the home page right now. I want to focus on something else. I want you to focus on the view of the courses. What is this URL? Scalar.com. Slash topics. Slash courses. Okay. So when I come to this particular URL, whatever I can get, all the courses. Okay. But you now just imagine that from these particular courses maybe you want to learn Python. Right. So look at this particular course. Right. So as soon as I click on this particular course, you just have to know this in the URL. Okay. So click on this course. You see the URL has changed. So now the entire URL is slash topics slash course slash. So now I'm picking on this one. What is the whole time I could access the entire Python course. Right. Similarly if I move forward, let's say you want to learn this Java course. Right. So if I click on Java, you will find out that the parameter that has changed. Right. And this is Java. And if you come this way, we can find Java course. Okay. So what's that thing right here? Anyone who would like to answer? Then when I'm hitting on courses, I'm getting all the courses. When I want to access a specific course, there are just changing for tax per course. And in both the operations, we have reading the results. Right. The courses reading on the courses, good with specific course, accessing that body level. Not creating anything, not updating anything, not updating anything. Both the operations are just some data. Right. But now we have to understand that how do you get data in bio? So we get to all the things that we have and how do we get one specific resource that will be applied. Right. Two things that we have to perform. Okay. Okay. That's all right. That brings me to my question. What must be happening? So this is the union title. Then when I'm hitting on courses, all the courses I get, where it's picking them up, showing them. But what is exactly happening when we are going for a specific course? Right. Let's go for the C++ course. The round ends today. And these particular resources are identified by this parameter. Right. Because it is C++ CPP beginners, that is why we have the C++ course. What are those parameters called? Anyone? Routes? That is, that is the route. Very close. Yes. Yeah. I mean, you were going to first go in route routes. What do you call these parameters as route parameters? Right. What are these things? We'll talk about what is this? Routes. Right. As we said, CPP beginners, like I said, C++. Jaskrub beginners, Jaskrub course. So all of these particular things that we are adding with the URL, Jaskrub parameters. Okay. Let's try to do this in actual, in our code. Okay. So what I'll do is, as we do not have a database right now, I'll just create a database for you. So first of all, we'll create one course in very much it. And what we'll do, we'll just add different courses. Okay. So maybe one object will be here, another object will be here, another object will be here, and I'm adding four courses right now. Okay. So each and every course will have an empty ID. Each and every course will have a course name. A course can have an instructor, right. What's it? Ananiya. Ananiya. Okay. Right. All right. Then maybe what do we have is, we have, maybe four point seven, four point six, whatever. Similarly, let's now add some different courses. Okay. I've added four courses. Now each and every course will have a very different course of course. So they will have different IDs and they will have different courses. Next. Yes. What is your name? Okay. Yes. Next. Next. All right. And then we have, what do you do to use classes as well? History class? You know? The way you hear now? Okay. What is already done in that particular class? That's right. All right. Any way. Yeah. So we have this course and there it is. Adding up these four objects which I represented in different courses. So now my job is to write two routes such that when we write one route we get all the courses and then we have to write one more route 8 point. That will help us to identify a unique course, especially course. How we are going to perform this? So first one that you can do. Okay. First one. When you have any resource, we just need to sign back each and every resource through a response. Okay. So if I go over here and if I just add topics, slash courses. Simulating the entire behavior of field of topics. What do I do to sign back? All the courses. There is the entire data. So for this what I can do? Response.Send instead of hello, I can send all the courses. That's it. Right. Now let's see if you get everything back. So I'll go over here. Go to local of the data and three, repress. And it says cannot yet. Right. Because there are this slash topics slash courses. Okay. Let's try to do this. And you see you get it all the courses. Okay. But this is a server sign. That's why we're getting the response in. Json. Now I will have a client. What will I client with? We got this. A.P.I. You get the whole point. What happens when you hit the ink with react? You get data in Json. Then whatever data you have, you just put it into your components. Right. So right now you're getting that data in Json. When you create your client, you put it into your components. Right. So now we have all the data in Json. So first I will do that. Get in all the courses. Now the question is how do we get one specific course? Okay. For this, what we are going to use, which concept? The route parameters. We have to see how we add route parameters. Okay. So for this, what we'll have to do is we'll have to write another get request. I'll move down and here we'll write another get request. Now this get request will not be forgetting all the courses, but for a specific request. Okay. So for this, now we have to set up this particular 8.4 in such a way. So it accepts route parameters. Okay. And how do we add route parameters? To add route parameters, the thing that you need to do is you need to add a slash. And here you need to define that by which particular parameter you want to access the resource. It can be anything. Right. So over here in scalar top, it's what we're doing. We're accessing the resource with the name of the course. See if it will be the original Java, original JavaScript, original JavaScript. Right. Where it's completely up to you, how do you want to access? So you can either choose the course name as the parameter or you can choose an idea as the parameter. But make sure every time you choose something, it's not a unique file. Right. Instructor can be the same for the courses. Right. Say, always try to find you need one. So let's find ideas. The mostly ideas are always in the name. Right. I've given all the courses in the idea. All right. So let's try to see how to add ideas to a route. So we'll go down. Something is wrong. Okay. So here, what do we have to do is over here. We need to use a cool. Right. Important part. We need to use a cool. And here you need to mention that what parameter you're expecting away. We are expecting. I know. Okay. Now as I expected, I mean. So with this particular route, as I'll go back, scalar topics slash courses, slash over here, you don't need to add a code over here. You'll need to pass the idea. Right. So let's say one, two, three, whatever is your idea, you pass one. Okay. This is how your route is structured. And when you have added one there, this route will automatically pick up one as the idea. But now we want to see this as well because what do we now need to do is whatever idea you have passed in the route, we first need to access it over here. If you have added one with the route, you need one. If you have added two with the route, you need to access it inside the route. Then only what you're able to do. Then only we will compare it with these resources. So if your idea is to, you compare it with all these objects, you find where the idea is to. And as soon as the comparison is done, you return that particular course on the resource. Okay. So that is important. So now the first thing is how do we access route parameters inside our code, inside our route. Okay. So do that. Just answer me this. When you press enter, what are you making? So your route parameters, they will come inside the request. Right. But how do access route parameters, let me show you. To access the route parameter, you do request docs, patterns. Okay. Something request docs. Now when these patterns, these patterns are the parameters that you have sent with the request. Right. And we have sent an route parameter, which is one. Right. Let's see if we receive this. So over here instead of returning, I'll just log this. Right. So that you can see that exactly we have received our parameter. So over here, we'll go and start with the server once. Okay. Server started. Let's see if I press enter. Will I receive one? Right. You see I've received ID as one. Now again, see this how the parameters have been served. Paramedics are not really some directly. They did it serve inside an object. Right. Where? The thing that you have kept as the route parameter, this is your key. And for this, whatever value has come up from the request is the one. Okay. Now what to do with this one? Let's hit this particular values now. One. What to do with one? We just have to compare this value with the entire. And wherever there is a match, that particular course is a course that we want to compare. Okay. How do we do the comparison? Sorry. We can use the fine method. Very nice. Right. Can you try it with that? Let's see. Take two, three minutes, five minutes. And just find this. Right. That the hammer out, we don't need to compare the error written in the list. So let's see. Very easy thing. Right. I'll push the code up to this point. Okay. One more thing I'm doing over here. Just keep steady. That whenever you are pushing a code, make sure you are pushing on the limits. Because the node model is expressing whatever you see, I'm starting. No more use I'm starting. So for that, it is a point you're in the node pipe and you know the node. Then then push a code. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Done. Okay. Okay. Then. If you're done, very nice. If you're not, let's try to clear it. Okay. So what do we have right now? We have our request params. All right. So what do we need to do? If you may have noticed one more thing over here that when you see a request parameters, this comes out to be a string. Yes. That is important. So we need to see ID. One is inside a string. But here you ID that you have defined by which you are going to compare. This is a number. Right. So we not only want to add the logic to find but we'll also have to make the time the same so that these two particular parameters can be compared. Or otherwise one will be string one will be ID. Sorry. One will be number and one will be reasons. Right. So here, two things we need to take care of. Now, what logic should I write over here? Okay. So first of all, where do we need to find the course in the course array? Right. So courses dot. For each and every course, we say bring out the course ID and compare it with the request dot param dot ID. But that request dot param. The first of all should be passed into number. Right. So to pass it into a number, we use this particular method that was by the name pass in. And inside this will pass request dot param and from param will get to the ID. Now, let's form an NC. This is other logic. Looks like. And whenever whatever course will be returned, we hold it in one variable. Let me call this and let course. And we send back the course. And I will see a route is ready. Now, I see if I go and if I write one, great. Right. I have the course of the ID one. Similarly, if I go to have the course of the ID two. Let's change the course name. Okay. Perfect. Right. Simple logic. Simple concept of route parameters. So this is how you will be using the gate method. Right. Either to get all the resources or either to get a specific resource. Yes. So what did you do with the previous. So now we have used the gate method in both the ways to get all the resources. And I will push the corner to this point. And this is basically again. Okay. Can we now move forward. Yes. So now we have learned how to access resources. Now let's move forward and see how to create a resource. This is on access again as well. Now let's see how do you do creation. So maybe let's say that now there are four courses and in my website in my web I want to add a fifth course. And new course is about to come up. So how do you perform that? How to be created in course, but not manually. I mean I can do an I can create an object that will also be a fifth course. But what do I want to do is I want to write a route by which I can create something on hitting on that on making a request. I need to create something because you are not going to create it through code. Right. You're going to create it through a client. You'll have a form you enter data in press set or impress enter whatever you have. Then I will create it. So that is what you are going to do. So we're going to create a resource with using the post method. So now over here we'll be using app.post and we'll have to keep a endpoint. What should be the endpoint? Yes exactly. Right. So if you see here you have all the courses from here on here getting on the courses. So why not just keep this as endpoint only and in this endpoint only we will just change the method to first. So first we were trying to get on the courses. No, it is trying to get on the course. Similarly now we'll move forward as we will have a request in response. Okay. This is the part that we are working on right now. But now there is an issue. Not an issue. But yes this happens. There are browsers are only and only available to perform gate requirements. They are not ready or they are not optimized to perform any kind of post update or delete request. If browser you can only do get requests. Right. Over here if I want to do some post requests I would be able to do this. It only understands gate. So then what we are going to do is this. Should we create a laptop in dire client that is that? Right. That we will do but not today. Today I want to show you that first of all before attaching your API to a client call we can test higher API. But if this is exactly working as I'm expecting it to work. Right. Is this creating a specific thing that I wanted to do? Right. So for this we use different testing tools. And what we are doing right now? We are creating restoretions. Okay. So to test restoretions there is a very popular tool that is widely used in the market. The tool tools by the name postman. Okay. Not only the postman there are other tools as well. If you want to use you can go back and you can use some VS code extensions are also available. So if I go to extensions right now. There is this particular tool that I was using recently which was Thunderbird. Right. Not coming up for some reason. Maybe some internet is I don't know. Right. Very slow. Right. But yeah, there is Thunderbird as well. There is another should be PR as well. Right. We have postman. So many tools have done. Whatever you're going to use it. No issues. Right. They want to the same job. But as postman is widely used so we'll be going on with post. Okay. So over here what do we need to do? First of all, everyone open the postman website. Right. You don't have to go anywhere. You just have to go to Google and this is the website of postman. And over here I have already logged in. So you just need to do one operation just for the case. If you have never used postman. Okay. Not to use postman. You can have various ways. Right. You can run postman on your browser completely. Right. You can also install a desktop version of the postman. So it will give you a web client where you can test your APIs. Right. So you want to install postman for desktop. We can search for postman desktop. Right. And this will give you a downloadable link. This one. Okay. It will just load and it will just figuring out my configuration right now. Right. It will just load and you can just download it from here. And as I already have postman, I'll show you how it looks like. You will have a postman app like this. Right. You can open this. The same thing will open up. Right. On your desktop. Whatever. Okay. But as we are just testing it right now, I'll be using the web client. Just for quick access, when we'll create the project, then we'll use a web client. Okay. So first thing that you need to do is you might be seeing this option. New collection or create a new workspace out of these two options. What are you seeing right now? I see this new collection. Now. My office is very right. So what do you need to do is you need to create one workspace for you. Oh, there you will find an option which says create workspace for my workspace. Go there and create one. So you're able to create at least one workspace as per everyone. Yes. Simple job. Okay. You'll see 1 plus I don't know exactly. Just press it. And this person plus and will be prompted to this particular window, right? A screen like this will come up. I'll show you. Right? New collection? Right? New collection? Right? Something like this you will see. This is the page you are going to be at. Perfect. So now we are trying and now we are ready to make our first request, right? Before we write the post request, I'll show you how to use post-sign. Okay? So here you will find all the options that you can do with your APIs. Get post code over past code delete, right? Reduce and options. These are the things. Write all your rules and send them on the H3 method, right? So let's try to use the gate method and see if this actually works, right? So you're using this. Let me open up. Let me just copy this entire URL and paste it over here. Right? So what I'm expecting, I'm getting requests to this URL. So which particular course is there to try to get requests? Number four. Let's see if this comes out. So if you send the request, you see you are getting course number four. Okay? Here at this particular part of this concept will show. Okay? Whatever is the process. Similarly, if you get all the courses, you know what will happen? All the courses will come. Right? You see all courses are here. Okay? That's how postman goes. But right now what you are doing, we're trying to learn about the post request. Okay? So for this, what do we need to do? We need to go over here and change the method to post. Right? Make sure the method should be changed. Change the method to post and here this is only the URL. We want to create a whole new list. Now how do we create a post? How do we create a list request? That is important. Right? So we have this particular route, we want to create something. Right? When you create something, let's say you're working on a client. Right? You have clients at open up, a reactor. And there, you are managing this element platform. And you want to add a new course. So what do we have generally? Maybe a form? Right? In that form, you're filling all the details. We're adding videos, we're adding names, we're adding all the details, we've got the reasons, whatever you want to add. And then there will be a button. That create course or submit or whatever. As we can see, press on that button, what happens? Request, what the request? Will it go empty or will it go with all of your data? Right? The request will be sent to the server with all the data. But how does a request carries the data? In JSON format, okay. But there should be one space, there should be one particular object or anything. Where your data is carried from the request. As you saw, when we added parents, where the parents come out, request.params. Then you are able to access your own parameters. Similarly, which is a request when you're sending data in bulk. The data was inside one object, which is called, anyone else? The body. Right? So with request, we get access to one particular thing which is called as request.body. Your entire data goes through port. Right? And if you go to postman, you will find one particular option over here. Body. Then what do you want to send in your request.body. Okay? So you have to open up body and in body only what do we send? The entire data. So where are you going to create the data? Body. Okay? Now, as we're using HTTP and REST APIs, we talked about it. So, the format of the data will be XML. JSON. Okay? Yes. So here you will notice that there is this particular drop down at the right-most side which says JSON. Okay? And you have to click on this button which is raw option. So we are going to send raw JSON data. So what do I do create? When I do the course. In which format? JSON format. So let's create the course in JSON format. Okay? So open up JSON object and exactly as JSON is structured and with the proper key names and values, I have to add this. So the first thing will be ID. Let me add the ID to 5 right now. Course name. Word courses that DBMS is not there. We'll add DBMS. Okay? Let's add instructor. What's your name? Shrew. Okay? Yeah. Then maybe if this is a very new course, right now let's not add any red dots. Okay? Done. Why we are getting this error? Oh, we are not close the JSON. Yeah. Okay. Done the PC. So I have taken one particular course and now we have any to send it to our server. The method is post, the route is okay and this will be taken to your route into request.boy. Let's see if the data comes up with a server. Okay. So here what we'll do. Console.log right now I'm not sending any response. I just want to show you something. Requires.boy. Okay? So as soon as I hit on this with some data, I should have that data invite request.boy. Let's see if this happens. Right? So we'll open up the terminal. We'll move to the server, server, start everything running. Let's hit on this request. Okay? 1, 2, 3, and set. Okay? Open. You can see the request has started. The request is done. Okay. ER is here. I'll define. You were expecting the course data. But it is here. You're going to find. That means somewhere something has happened which is not letting you see the course data. And it's coming up as identifying. Okay? You can even figure out that what must have gone wrong because we have done almost everything correct, right? Data format, JSON, method, post, epi route, correct. We're even getting the response. Right? That says that we have done everything right. But the response is not the code data. The response is identified. Now this we just have to figure out. Why not the post data? Why not? Anyway, let's write. Center, right? Sorry? You know everything. I want every thing. I want any one else to write. Yes? Anyone? Can you try it? Please? At least give it a shot. Then why the data doesn't define? Anyone? I'll just write. Tell me what is this format? This is object. This is JSON. Okay? Not anybody is this format. This is JavaScript object. Okay? So you are sending data in JSON. And you are expecting the data to be returned in. Just a object, right? So it happened. You are sending JSON data. And you are expecting the data to come up as JavaScript, right? Completely different formats. So what do we do then? Very nice. Yes, we can do that. But when we do server-side programming, JSON-Stringify, JSON-Pars, all these methods are not available to us. They are on browser methods, right? When we are on node server, JSON-Stringify, JSON-Pars, these methods generally are not available to us. Right? If you don't really well show you. Right? Or maybe you can try, right? That parse-Stringify is not available for an API. It's just a second. Something is wrong with my laptop. One minute, everyone. I'll close all the additings. I have nothing open but still. Yes, let's see. Okay? So here we can't do that. But yes, we are absolutely right. You are right in that way that we have to parse the data. Right? But stringify parsing cannot be used here. Now here I'll introduce you to one concept which are known as middle, this. Okay? Now let's talk about middle. Okay, let's see. What's your name again? There you. Great. Now let's say there you want to keep us sandwiched. Right? And I have all the ingredients to prepare a sandwich. But I don't have an instance and machine being prepared to sandwich. Okay. So I cannot just take all my ingredients and sub-design which I have to prepare the sandwich. Right? And now let's say, sorry? Tushar. Tushar is all the utensils, Tushar is all the ingredients you are allowed on spices and all the things. Right? So what will I do first? Will I directly go to the area and sub-design which? Or will I take all the ingredients to Tushar, I'll ask him okay prepare the sandwich and then serve it to him. Okay? Right? So who is Tushar over here? I'm a dealer. Right? So now just imagine I have some data. I need to pass it to the area but the area one set in a different format. Let's say I have JSON, the area one set in JavaScript. What do we do? We now send it to Tushar. Tushar will process the data converted into JavaScript send it to then like that. So who is Tushar right now? I'm middle way. Okay? So the job of middle way in any kind of service and programming is this only. That if I have something and if I want something to be sent, right? To some other resource, to somewhere else. And that particular resource and that particular meeting needs a different format. Right? So we send it to our middle way. We convert the format in what we need to send it to that particular destination and the complete data is changed and then the redice set. Okay? Something like that happens. This is a job of middle way. It's one job of middle way. Right? There are other jobs as well. Middle way is can actually help you in authentication or the right way. Right? Middle way is can help you in processing different kinds of data. Right? So many things. You'll see more and more applications are pretty ready. But today's application is converting JSON to JavaScript and then sending it over to the server. How do we do this? So do this first of all move to express the documentation. Right? And as we have talked about the most important feature of express, or I should say a very important feature of express is, middle ways. Okay? So how to see this? Go to docs from here. Right? And you will find all these options in your guide section. Writing middle way, using middle way, right? Two options over here. So I take you to using middle way. Okay? Let's go to using middle way. And you will see that there are a lot of middle ways that we can use. Express supports five types of middle way. Application level, router level, error handling, built in, and third part, so many middle ways. We'll be just using one for today. Okay? We'll be using one of the built in middle way of express, which are these five built in middle ways. Out of this file, what suits our use case rate? Yeah? In the second one. Right? If you see express dot, json. What that middle way does? Prices incoming request with JSON payloads. So if you notice, we are actually sending a JSON payload in our body data. This needs to be passed into JavaScript objects. Right? So this particular middle way over here is going to help us do that. Okay? Express dot JSON. Now, using input middle way of express is a very easy job. Right? You don't need to do anything. You need to go back. And whenever you have written this particular route, go down a little bit. Use app dot use. Okay? Just write app dot use. And inside this, add the middle way that you want to use, which is express dot JSON. And just call it done. Right? Done. What this middle way does? Prices, JSON, different. Okay? Now, as you have added this, it is available globally for all your routes. Put route, post route, delete route, whatever you are doing, all of your JSON data will be done. Okay? In all the routes. Okay? This is a global building. Global building. Okay? Okay. But as we have added this, now let's see if we are seeing the course data. See if I go to the terminal. And if I go to the server, server started. Let's make the request again this time. Send. Okay? We have sent the request. And if you see your entire course data now is passed. First it was undefined. And in the past, now we have the data in JavaScript object model. Okay? So this is important to do. In server side model. Okay? We have the data. Yes. Okay? Now, I'll give you a little out of it. How are we going to use? Explain it like this one. This one. This one? Right? Okay. Because this is how you use the model right? Right? See. The first thing is that we are using app.use. And from inside app.use, if you go to the documentation, you will realize that, okay, I'll just move to that particular part. Yes? Over here. If you notice app.use is one particular method which is help you to use all the particular ways. And from your express object, this is not the express function. This is the express object. From this object, you are getting this method which is JSON, which is the middle layer. Okay? This is how your input middle layer is hard to find. All right? If you notice, yes. Sorry, there is slight out of the message right here. But that visual出来, that,flies, and thickness, works for us. But perhaps this means that this is 함께, I would just say, there is nothing – I need the Web through the Server cell. Any kind of noting will come together? It would come together like this. So, if you notice now we have got back the entire object and now this course what do we need to do with this course? We need to create it inside. Alright, so how do we create? We can just say right now courses. Push, request dot board. Whatever data has come up, get that data and push it inside courses. Okay, what the thought of good way of doing this? But just showing you how to create a source. When we work with the database, I will show you mine and it will structure very well. Right? Perfect. Now let's move forward and what do we need to do? Response dot send and I'm just sending a message right now. course. Okay, let's see if the course gets created and we get it inside our database. So, now we move forward and we send the request and we get the response back as course. Now to see if the course has been created or not, what do we need to do? Get a request, get all the courses. Now what we are expecting? We are expecting total five courses sent and you see the fifth course has been added. Okay, so I will just push the course of this point, push method. Okay, I have pushed the course. Check this out. Try adding your course method. Try to create a resource. Let me know if you have any doubts and questions up to this point. Yes. Okay, done. All right. So now there are two small homeworks. Right? We know how to get all the resources. We know how to get them. Special resources. We know how to create a resource. Okay. We know all these things. But now how we are going to update and delete resources. Okay. Let's see right now. Let's say I want to update a resource. App. Put. What should be the route? What should be the route here? I will just update. When you want to update a resource, you want to update everything or if you want to try to update this specific select one and then I will. Okay. We will select one. So do you know how to select one resource? Yes. Okay. So the route will exactly be the same. Okay. We identify the resource with the 90 and you want to update it. So first you have identified the resource. Okay. Let first equal to the same code we can use right. Let me find the resource after finding whatever value you want to change. You just need to send it to the request body. Get it here and update. Okay. So if I move back and let's say that I want to change course number one and I want to add up for the question right. And let's say I want to change the course name of this particular course. Okay. Which course course number one. Okay. What's number one right now is Java. Okay. Let me just change this to Java or beginners. Right. I've just edited this a little bit. All right. Now where will I receive this? If the request is done, body. Okay. So now move back and I'll say that whatever this course is. For this course change which property. Change the course name to whatever has been received with the request. Okay. Something like this. And then send back a response as course of table. Right. Let's see if this happens. So now move back. We will send this time the request is put send course updated. Right. We have updated the name from Java to Java for beginners. Let's see if this has been done. So I'll get the name and get the course number one. And you see the course name has been updated. Right. Simple update. All right. Now if you notice I talked about one method which is put. There is another method which is patch. That is also used for making updates. Why two methods for update? I mean of course there will be some difference. Right. So this is your homework for today. That you have to figure out. Then what exactly put does and what exactly patch does. They can be used in a very similar way. If I go over here and if I use patch. Right. If I change the method to patch. And let's say change the name for Java. One one or whatever. Right. Do you think the same thing will happen? Course updated. Get. Yes. Again update has been done. But is there some difference in the real working? Anyone? Yes. Yes. Completely right. Right. And that is exactly right. Okay. So was anyone able to hear what did he just say? No. Very nice. If you are not able to hear because you have to find it out. Okay. So yeah. A small homework for everyone that you have to understand or. You just have to figure out what is the difference between. Yes. I have to figure out what is. All right. We are done though. What today. So you just have to figure out what is the difference between put and patch. Okay. That's your small homework for today. And not only this. But as you have updated the resource in the same way. Can you also try deleting? Yes. Send an ID. Find the course. And you don't need to update anything. You just need to remove it from the link from the here and from wherever you want. So just try that. Right. So two small homework for everyone. Understand the difference between put and patch and try writing. Okay. So when do we have a next session tomorrow only? Yes. So tomorrow we'll move forward with databases. And we'll start with no SQL database. So as we have created this kind of database. This is not a database. This is simple. Okay. So what we'll do in the next session will actually take our data into an actual database. Okay. From there we'll talk about the company in between the server and the data. All right. I've pushed the code for today. We'll start with attendance. Please attend your own calls. Okay. Please. Okay. Please. Thank you. I love. I love. I stick with you. I mean, I'm a member of the community. I mean, I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community. I'm a member of the community.