Th t Let us now move forward. Okay? Okay? So what we're going to talk about today, I agree with you forward. I am on previous two sessions, but we have talked about the over-dumbed over-dumbed. Yes, I have to put many, many, many, talked about expressed, and how you can use express and create basic service, and move on, some kind of issues. Okay? So there are some small movements, do you know what did you perform? Just, get the different between put in patch and write, then delete logic. So did everyone try? At least, yes, were you able to do this? Yes. Very good, if not, we will be doing all this, right? Well, today's agenda is going to be, that we move forward and we explore the database side of things, right? In our previous session, we have talked about, you can create a server, you can perform on the credit operations, but over here, we just have a simple, course as I read. Very big, we can create a database, we can create a team of perform on the credit operations. So we're creating this as a database, but when we move forward, this cannot be a database, of course, right? So we have to move forward and understand, what all database management systems, how do we use the database and the necessary to work, server? This is where you will be in number eight session, right? But before we move forward, I want to touch this on, how many of you are away of this? Q-end? Something is wrong with my pen? It just is a yes. Okay. What is this? Okay. All right, that's the full form. I'll give it to you, but what it does? Okay. Right? You used to make data analysis, okay? You make a blank paper. Okay. So let me be more specific. Let me ask you some more specific questions. In what form would you store data in a SQL database? Tables. Okay. So yes. SQL, Microsoft, Spectre, Query, Language, and whatever data this is, are related to SQL, Postgres, MySQL, whatever it is like, right? All of these are just this full and data in form of tables. So let's just find a table. You will get a table, and the table consists of rows and columns. And then some columns, and rows. Okay, go ahead. Now, just imagine what we're doing is, we are creating a student database, or an employee database, or whatever database you can have. Let's create a student database. So let's say that what will be the first thing that I'll add for a student database? To identify a specific student, you'll have to have the ideas or role-overs, whatever. Right? After that, the student can have a name. Maybe they can have a course in with the role-in. Hey, he has... Here, very nice. Okay. All these particular roles in this can be done. So now let's also add some of the data. Okay? So let's add hiding number one. What's it in? Tusha. Okay? Tusha, maybe it's in the order for the next course. Here, it's pretty good. Okay, next. I'm adding. Then maybe it's in the order for the IDN. And again, maybe it's right here in the IDN. Let's move forward. So here. Okay, so you know what I know. What do these course parts say? One thing about my simple database first, right? But now this is the magic that this database has created. And this is right here. I want to make some changes to this database. Maybe I want to add some other problem. Maybe the one must have some obvious. Right? I'm going to add this to our name column. So what do these two have? I'm adding a column to the database. How do you add a column to one SK database? Altum. Right? You've ordered a table, you've added a column. And it's like, you don't have to enter all the fields as well. So what will be the query to add a data? First of all, you've ordered a table up to that. You can search it. Okay, you guys know. Okay. But now I'm going to do this. Just search about this. This is adding a column in the table. And here we have the operation. Right? So if you see that there are two things to this answer. There are many different changes. Whenever you want to know what the table is adding in the column, generally these particular operations are live operations. Which is okay. And a column, I have some data. But now I'm going to move forward with you. A lot of factors decide that with this operation, we need a heavy operation or a lighter operation. Right? What are these factors? The table up on the table is a very heavy, depending on your database system, table size and how you set it up. There are so many factors that are working. And also, there are database grows. As soon as there are a lot of data that is going to come up, adding columns, monitoring the table becomes very heavy. It takes more costs, it takes more time, and processing time was like this. A lot of things happen, so the rest of the data is. Now let's take another scenario. Let's take another scenario in this particular area. First of all, let's add the rows. Okay, just to make out improvements. All right, let's get in there. Think about it. If not, how do you do it? All right, well, let's go back to the item or in the next section of this area. And I can still wonder why you need a lot of contact. I want to know what you need to be able to do for your eyes. I want to write it in my answer, I want to write four numbers as I want. Okay, so how many changes do you need to back to our title? Now, there are two information that we need to write. Not just one. Will you be able to write a column or be able to do something else? The question is clear, right? You want to add the contact information for this, right? But for the contact information, I want to make a lot of contact. For the number design, I want to give you the email. So maybe you're following all the votes of these together. Or is there some other work out? I think that's the only thing that's more important than that. That is different data. Different data. Right? Right? See, that is what we're going to do. Like you want to add multiple data to this. Then you generally create a different data. So point point that, there is half to create a different table coordinate data. Right? Time over here, you will have one other column. This will be for what I think. Right? This is a zero data. We will be showing people what I have. And then what do we have to do with this? For that, you will have to create another separate table. Right? When we add contact ID, maybe 1, 2, 3, whatever, boy, there's just just 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 2, 3, 6, 6, 7, 8. If I do, I can add ID. Right? I will go ahead and add it. Now we'll create the different sections. Phone, email. Right? So, we will add some phone number. Some email time. And some email. So now, the question is that these IDs would be mapped all the way. Right? You do 4x6. What do you call right? What do you have? What do you have? What do you have? I have to get the ID. I don't need this on my ID. And specifically, I want to make a call. How do I get it? One option is join ID. Right? One option is that we can use joins. Now, whatever join this would be for you to use case. You know join, join, join, join, join. Right? And the option can be to establish key related sections. Right? You can go for private keys, coin keys. Right? You take up keys, and you access the data. And you join the paper like that. Right? You can do both. I am going to do the search for you. Right? How can you do it? You want to join this in your case. You want this on? It's okay, right? Right? Just read two lines. You don't need to read a lot about this. It's reading through it. And it's a bit heavy about exactly how you already join a string. So let's say we're working on a very big table, and we have to perform joint operations. So you'll notice that this SQL table join can become incredibly heavy. You need to respond to a cheap performance job, high memory adoption, and secure service. But does that mean that is I'm saying that SQL databases are bad? No, I'm not saying they're bad. I'm just saying that there are some use cases. There are some operations when we perform that the operations can become extremely heavy. And thus they can make the server performance a little not awkward. The performance can get, performance can be bad. Okay? Now, when we are working on applications like maybe some government apps, government apps, let's say government apps are handling huge chunk of data, the whole India's data is with them. But if you notice, government data, most of your other data, and data, dried licenses, data, what's that particular data that is created? They have a fixed schema, it will notice. Your other card, everyone will have the fixed schema, details can be different. Raviglizers, fixed schema, details can be different, bank account, fixed schema, details can be different. So wherever those particular applications where you have schema, completely fixed, they are SQL data licenses performed the best thing. Because there is no much change in your ability. There is only the operations and right operations to the same scheme. But not just the magic, some applications like Instagram, your social media post. Right? Now imagine my social media platform, where the data is completely not structured. Right? Skimas can change. Details can change. Multiple people are following multiple people. Some are following, some are not following, some are completely randomness of data. Right? You are adding multiple posts. You are adding multiple stories. You are doing all that. Right? It's not just what it is. It's what it is. It's what it is using that out of these new nodes. Right? Then of course, that particular application will also give you chat features. You can edit it with each other. You can call it time, you can message, you can call it. There are so many things in that particular environment. Right? So in these types of applications, usually the data is changing a lot. Right? There is a lot of read operations. There are a lot of write operations, a lot of update operations. And every time you have any time that particular system is, that particular system is handling all of these operations together. Right? So but these kind of applications, then SQL becomes not a very performative read-wise. Right? So now in these cases, what kind of read-wise is our read-wise reads? That particular read-wise, which will give you read, that read, the read, the read, and also help you with unstructured read-wise. Right? The main SQL stands for structured read-wise. Right? Relation and read-wise. All of these things you will listen when you hear about SQL. Right? There's always a relationship. There are always structured read-wise. Right? I don't know. Perhaps they're bombing maps or are absolutely fixed. And then there will be no more change in a read-wise. It's very best. When we talk about applications like associated read-wise, from an instance to a read-wise, things like that, or other applications like two-dot-end applications, two-dot-end, two-dot-end applications, the data change is rapidly. So what that? We now move to some other category of read-wise, which are noise-cute read-wise. What are noise-cute read-wise databases? Does it mean we're not going to use SQL? No. Right? It's not for not only SQL. Right? That means we'll have the power of SQL as well to query, to fetch data on new other applications, but in some traditional ways. Right? And the structure in different noise-cute databases is also different. Right? The data structure is two-dot-end. Right? So how do we store those structures in SQL? We don't know. But now as we move to noise-cute, you can see that the free-low-estory read-wise is at all the different noise-cute read-wise, they use different structures to store the read-wise. Right? And even every structure is useful in one of the other cases. Right? Let's try to see. So we just wait for few minutes or a little bit, and in this kind of work, the free-low-estory read-wise. Okay. So now, noise-cute read-wise is the company that we use. There are so many categories of the noise-cute read-wise. Right? The first category over here is document-release. Right? Another category of noise-cute read-wise is key value-release. Unlike the category that you might not use, you're not doing these very things. And there is another category, which is white or white. Right? And there is another category. You know, vector-release. Right? There are many areas as well. Okay. So now, let's talk about these discrete databases. How do they work? What I need to know is something. So first of all, let's talk about document-release. So as we are going to study MongoDB, in this entire course, MongoDB is a document. Okay. Have you used a document-release for? You actually have. Right? In your React course, remember, there was a task at the final term project that you had to use for a store database. The story or authentication details to store some details. Did you do that? Anyone did it? Right? What's for a store DB? The data was saved in a table. No. The data was stored in form of document. Right? Yes, JSON. My dual JSON objects are only for this. Document. Okay? So they were documents. So you actually use a document. Okay. So, first store is a document-release. Similarly, in this course, you have a word about MongoDB. This is also a document database. And the structure is the data stored in this. JSON. Okay. Let me see how JSON objects store the data. So MongoDB is going to be the hero of this course. We talk about MongoDB at all. Right? So, right now, under the data, right now, it's a code of some other data. Okay. Keywise, the key is. Have you ever heard about Keywise databases? Okay. The most popular keywise, you'll get a list of them. There it is. There it is. Okay? You may have heard about this. Okay. Even if you have not used it, you may have heard about it. There is a very popular keywise. Okay? Now, what red is does? Yeah. Sorry. Cash ink. Very nice. Okay. Yes. Exactly. So, over here, the most important feature of red is this cache. It does not know this, but it is. So, do you want to find out where this cache is? Or is it a cache? Anyone who can get this red? Yes, please. Okay. Very stories, but, who can get it? Green. Green. Right? So, where do you see cache? Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Green. Okay. Open up your mobile phones. Right? Open up your mobile phones and just. Yes, exactly. What I will tell you. This is your mobile phone. Here, I will have a tab. Right? How are these tabs looking? If I am going with the tab and I am clicking it, I am directly going to that particular tab. Right? Because my mobile phone has saved that data somewhere in the cache. It is not saving the entire page. It is saving just the location with the entire page. And when you clear all your tabs, your cache is empty removed. Okay? So, that is how cache works. Similarly, as you have set Spotify, right? In Spotify, where you listen to music, right? You listen to music, you close Spotify, you come back, you see the safety, right? Right? And whatever software you listen to, the most comes up at the end of the day. Right? How does that happen? So, Spotify uses the technique known as LRU. Anyone knows LRU? Please reset your use. Right? Exactly. So, this particular concept is used by Spotify. LRU is actually a cache technique. Right? So, what are these techniques that you see you can do with? Right? And the data is generally stored in the library. Right? Like your boarder may have a computer. Where a room number is there and a secret is there. So, if they want to find a secret, they can just see the room number. And for that room number, they find a secret. Like key and by which is the simple existence for a quick review. That's how it works. Maybe if we get some time in this course, we will try and implement data signal in the project. Okay? Okay. That's right. I can add a graph. Okay? The most popular graph, the only thing you will find is Neo4j. If you go to Google right now, and you search about it, Neo4j. Right? This one. Okay. This actually is a graph database. And what? Graph database does? They store the information in form of graphical relational. Okay? Let me open up something. Okay? Something like this. It's getting. All right. But what it does? Yeah. These are different particular circles. Okay? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I think let's add a tool in right here. I think 2008 or last year I did what yesterday in Beijing. Arizona. And how about developing all of these characteristics because you would find years ago involving some of these kinds of connections, some active incorporating introductions, and some of which have got deep structures, and what kind of connections and characteristics are addressed in just a few refreshments and also some подт Tiffany Emerson. They have never consumed some content, they have noticed that at the bottom we have recommendations or you may like, how does that happens? Because they have established a particular genre and according to that there are three actors, maybe you are watching some Tom Cruise movie, right? And after some time you will see that Netflix is recommending more Tom Cruise, right? Because they have completely established a relationship, that if this particular individual watches Tom Cruise movies, let's show them more, right? Things like Tom Cruise, yes, relationships are established like that in movie recommendations and incidents. Similarly, you have Instagram, you have your name, then what do you do? You make connections or you follow each other, and follow each other whatever, right? So let's try to take that example as a lawyer, maybe it is a different noise. Right? There are different norms, considering it as different profiles, different people. Right? Now, Okay, now graphical relationships can be both ways. It can be a two-way relationship, it can be a one-way relationship, it can be a two-way relationship, right? So let's say person may follow his person, see one-way relationship, right? Doesn't necessarily mean see or trap the following, right? Maybe see this following and be following and see. Two-way relationship, right? So now, can you see that section? Accounts you can follow, or account you should follow, account people you may know, something like that, right? So as these can be picked to see, and base can be picked to see. So then what will happen is that there will be a relationship damage to me, and this is how you can look at people. Right? Something like this. Okay. So graphed collections or graph databases are used to establish these kind of scenarios, these kinds of things, right? Although with graphs, are you ready for a story to be made? Right? How many of you have got about six degrees of separation? Anyone? Yes, what is this? What is that? Yes, you have to absolutely write. Right? So there is this popular graph theory that do not write. Or the not writing is a theory to not just give you one theory. Six degrees of separation. Right? This particular concept. Okay. So this particular concept says that in between me and some other person, if I don't know that person, it is very, very likely that just with five more connections, I will know that person. Right? Let's say if you take me and make it to Saraka, okay? There is no connection between you. Right? But it's very, very possible and it's highly probable that just four or five more people I'm connected to, maybe the first one is connected to Saraka. Right? Something like this. Okay? So there is a very popular simulation that has been created to this, right? Which is this, given they can be able to play. I'll just tell you, we just have a little fun that we'll move forward. Okay? This one. Okay? So now what they have done is they have taken all the celebrities, right? From all over the world, I have been proved the six degrees of separation theory that they give this individual as a parameter. Okay? Now whoever you want to connect, given they can do, you can. Okay? And it's completely rigid that the degrees will not pass six people, right? Let's see if it can't answer. Right? Take a wild celebrity. Any celebrity from all over the world? Right? Sure, let's try this. Okay, let's see. Right? Completely okay, and this individual is a bit, I don't think we have any connection. Right? But let's see if we find a connection. And actually, yes, we have a connection. Right? So Ravi Kishan, worked at this movie where there was Manojoshi, then Manojoshi was in this one with Martin Steen, then there was some movie by Midanipi Eid and Keelan Begerosanipi. Right? So if you see this entire list is not passing, six degrees. Okay? Just a little graph theory. All right? I don't know why do I know these are just the list. So, yeah, you can just have a little fine with six degrees of saturation. But yeah, let's now come back to our main topic, graph theories. All right? So, yes. Although for this course, Neo4j is out of context. So, it won't be dealing with Neo4j in this course. If we have some time in third year, maybe I'll have two three sessions or Neo4j. But now let's move forward. The next one is, why in quantum matrices? What a white quantum databases? This particular database is also out of scope for this course. Right? For this, you at least need to work with basic databases first of all. Then you can go to understand what are white quantum matrices. Okay? Maybe after three four sessions, I talk a little bit about this. But yes, I hope you look for it. You can say it. You can read it into it about white quantum matrices. Okay? Have you ever heard about the names Cassandra Apache? It's like that. Yes? They're all white quantum matrices. Now, how do they work? Just see that. Although, not necessarily right now. Okay. So, these are one of the two questions that you will find. I guess there are vector databases as well. Which we'll talk about in our data courses. Okay? Now let's move forward. So, the main database for this full-stat course is going to be over. Let's start with MongoDB. Have you ever used MongoDB? No? Not up till now? If you have not, don't worry. Okay? We'll be using it from scratch. All right. So, MongoDB is one database, which we will not be learning just by writing queries. That's not what we are going to do in this course. We're going to use MongoDB as a database for a project. So, our database will be connected to a live server. Our database will be continuously connected to our server, getting requests, sending the responses back. Okay? In this way, we are going to use MongoDB. In your SQL course, I don't think we have connected your database to the server. It was just constantly very slow. But this one will connect. So, first of all, before I leave into the fundamental of MongoDB, we will connect it to our server. And to do that, now there are two ways. Now, what are these two ways? These two ways are, you can either use this particular tool, which goes by the name Compass. Now, what is MongoDB Compass? MongoDB Compass is that tool, which you can use as a web length. Then you can just install it as a desktop application. And you can use a database on your desktop. And the data will be taken up from your own local system. Your system's data will be your system's memory will be used to run Compass. But at the end, what you have to do when you deploy a project, your data should exist on the network or the cloud. So, for that, we will not be using Compass. We will be using another tool, which is Atlas. Now, what Atlas will help you do? Atlas is that particular instance of MongoDB, which helps you to create data on the cloud itself. So, it won't be using anything from the local system. It will help you to add all of your data in the cloud itself. Your data always remains on the network. Great. So, first of all, what do we have to do to use Atlas is go inside Atlas and open up this URL. Okay, done? And you know what to do. You just need to sign up with Google and authenticate yourself. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Take some time. Okay. Okay. Great. So, now, as soon as you authenticate, as I am already authenticated and I already have some projects running, that's why I am just taking my directly side Atlas. But if you are trying this for the first time, it may be given you a form where it is asking you what you want to do with MongoDB. What is your purpose? Right? Do you want to add those details, I don't need this. Or, there will be an optional tool called the state for a final state. Okay. Just do it once. Yes, yes. I am coming along. Okay. And now, whatever page you are on, stay on that page for once. Okay. Yeah, but I see this. Yeah, but see. Yes. So, now you must be seeing this page. The first page now says, it is a little bit lower cluster. Is it changed something like that? Yes. This one. Is there a lot on this page? Correct. So, if anyone is on this page, now from here, you have to select for the free tier. I think I am just learning. It is doing it for learning purposes. So, now, when you go over any query, there is some free tier of MongoDB. It is going to keep you around 512 entries of data, which is okay for a person with values. Right? So, you will be using the free tier. And here, you don't have to change anything. But I will explain what all this means. Your database cluster will be created on some AWS provider in the region, mobile. That is your cloud storage. Right? They are your data by this store. Right? You can change this as well. But yeah, I don't recommend changing it. It's okay. Now, from here, you don't have to do anything. Just go for it, create, deploy. Okay. And as soon as you do this, you will be thrown with this particular page. Right? Is there anyone here? Yes. Yes, yes. Name can be cluster 0. You don't have to change the name. Okay. Now, over here, you will find this particular page. Now, this page says that there are three pointers that I give a little bit. The first point is this collection I will use as added. Tickmarked. That means MongoDB address has automatically identified your IP address. You don't have to do anything. Database user created. You as a user has been created. And you have two things with your head now. You have your user name. You have your password. Now, these two credentials are very important. Okay. So, what do you have to do? Go back to your code base. I'll create class 3. MongoDB. And inside this, I'll add a new file. Let me call this f1.xt. And here, make sure you store your user name. And you store your password. Okay. Because as soon as you get your own choose connection method, these two things will be gone. Especially the password will not be so long again. Okay. So, make sure you just copy these two things and store it in some file. And then, move forward to choose connection method. All right. Now, these are one of the options of connecting your database to your servers. Or just using the database. Okay. So, really, choosing the first one. Well, the next one, if you see, there are just random tools through which you can access data. Right. Like, I just talked about compass. Maybe you can use MongoDB with compass. Maybe you can use it within your shell, within your terminals. Right. You can use it with case code. You can use it with Atlas SQL. You can do all these things. But what is our job? Our job is to connect this database to the server. So, the first option says connect your database to your application. So, it will be going for drivers. Okay. So, let's go to drivers. As soon as I go to drivers, why do we want the driver to select it as nodeJS? So, MongoDB Atlas is going to provide a driver for nodeJS, which you can use it to connect your database to a node server or an express server. Express server is over on a node server. And then, if you are using any other tool. So, for other tools, there are different drivers. So, if you open the dropdown, you will find all the options. C-shap, Go, Java, Kotlin, PHP, Python, Ruby, everything. We are using node. So, I'll stick to node. And then it is telling you in the next step. The next step it is asking you to do is install MongoDB for a server. Okay. So, we'll move back. And you will be first before installing anything, what do we do? We initialize the environment. Okay. Okay. I'll create a different file. Okay. Very good. Let me call this as server. And you guys give it. All done? This we have done in the previous session, right? Yes, come. Hyrule is clear. What are all these things? Yes. Okay. So, now inside this, we just need to create one intag.js file. And the second thing is n-prem install express. Okay. In the server. Okay. And then the next part we are going to do is n-prem install. Actually, did we also talk about node1? You have done node1? Okay. So, quickly, download node1 is well and MongoDB. Okay. So, we will start with multiple cool side ones. Okay. Installation part all done. You can go to package.js and you can see you have express. Now let's move forward. What is the next step? The next step is it is giving you one connection string. Right? If you notice here, this one. Now, this is the connection string which is very important. Right? Through this only your server will connect to your cluster or your database. Right? So, this URL is very important. So, let's pick this URL and this URL is needed to save. So, go to fpnode.ust and we will save this URL. Now, study this URL into it. What do you find in this URL? What is this? This much part. This much part? This is your user name. Right? And what is this much part? This is actually a password. Okay? So, through this URL only you will be able to access your databases. Now, why databases are thinking of indication? Why do they need a password and a user name? Okay. Why do you generally need a password and a user name? For security purposes, we have this user name and password. Right? So, that whenever you are handling your database, you only have the right to access your database. Right? Not anyone else. So, that is why we have to make sure that we remember user name and password for our specific database for our cluster. Okay. But done. What is the next step? The next step is just done. Okay? So, we have done this and now this is your database and made with the database and the classic key. Right? Very much. Okay? What next? The next step is this key needs to be connected to our server. For this, we first need to create a server. Right? We haven't created anything right now. So, how do we create a server with an express? Constexpress. Require. Express. Then, we need to write express with const. And express. And go to the same. Assign any port. I'll assign 8,8.8. Assipred.line function, which we will know right now. So, what? Start it. And. Okay. I'll assign it. Okay. Maybe we were trying to say express. Okay. Now, what you see is 8,8 is the port. Right? You know. Okay. So, what you see is 8,8 is the port. Right? Okay. So, what you see is 8,8 is the port. Right? Okay. Okay. Now, what you see is 8,8 is the port. And we have a port. Very nice. What happened this? Come on. Let's write a commonly basic home route. Right? Have. Get. A home route. This will take a request response. And we send back some. Yes, folks. Maybe hello from our home. Yeah. That is really good. OK. Now, let's go to and grand this. How to download it? Video no. If I reached up. Okay, here I will go this way. Now here I will go a little slow, things are going to get interesting. All right. Now as we want to connect our mongoty with database with the server, then again so many ways of doing this. Right? One of the ways is use the mongoty bit library, but this comes up with a lot of complications. I will show you something. Okay. Now just see this is good. All right. First of all, you need to get your mongoty bit library. From there you need to get the library. Okay. Okay. Now just see this is good. All right. First of all, you need to get your mongoty bit library from there. You need to get your mongoty bit library, you need to get your mongoty bit library. Okay. Right. This is your UI, which we are talking about. After that you have to set up everything about your client. And what is your client? What is the version? What will be the rules? Then you need to run it one AC function where you connect the client. You will await for the command and then finally you connect to mongoty bit. And that is not enough. You have to add this particular thing as well. That you close the mongoty bit. Right. So just imagine if setting up the database is this much. So if you just want to work with the driver, how complicated is that being? Right. So what is what we are going to do? We are not going to use the mongoty bit driver. But we are going to use another tool, which is the industry now. Mongoty bit driver is not industry now. No one is using this. Right. But what they are using then? We are using something known as an over m. Yes. This one. They are using something known as an over m. But over m is not the right word. Over m are the layers between a database and a server which will help you to communicate between the server and the database in an easy manner. They have all abstraction done. You only need to use some methods. You only need to add queries and your things will be done. Right. They establish all the configuration by itself so we don't have to do any manual configuration. These tools are known as the over ms. The tool stands for object relational map. Okay. But over ms are specially used for if you notice. SQR databases. Okay. But what we are using? No SQR databases. So for no SQR databases the layer is ODA. Right. ODA. Now ODA stands for object, data, model. So for no SQR databases we will use it. ODA. So for SQR databases we will use it. ODA. Now popular ODAs are. Have you heard about the thumb prison or something? Right. They are all boilers. And now we are going to use ODA. So for mongo degree there is a very popular ODA that works and the name is mongos. Right. Not this mongos. But ODA mongos. So we will use it. This mongos. Okay. So if you use it this tool to connect our database and work within the server analytics. Okay. So again same thing if you see. First of all before going to documentation and everything you install mongos. Right. So you go to read the docs. The first thing that you find is the installation command. Right. You go to quick start and here is the installation command. So you copy the mongos installation command you go back and for a server you install mongos. Right. Simple. Very nice. Okay. Now from mongos you get access to one method which is connect. But for that the first thing to import mongos. Now from mongos you get access to this method. Connect. All right. Now see how super easy it will be to connect your database. Right. If you are using a driver you need to add this much code. Right. Do many complications. Do many things to handle. But with mongos you just need to do this mongos.connect and we can say connect. What do you need to pass any access? Your URL. Right. You have saved the URL here. Just pick this URL up. And maybe what I'll do is just for better readability. I will save the URL in a DB URL variable. Right. So mongos will try to correct this URL. All right. But now as database is one external resource that is one external system. Right. So there will be a request that they will descend. But that you are right. Right. We are going to send a request and system external. Right. So for that you have this entire thing is created as one. A-sync cooperation. Right. Now you know Y-sync cooperation. Other system, send the request. Wait for the response. Right. Can be time-taking. So for that this entire operation is one. A-sync operation. So this returns one. Promise. So you can resolve the problem as hell. By your saying. Are you resolved all of those? Which using then and? Yes. Okay. So over here you just have to write there. If everything is successful. If this particular method is successful. We just show the message DB connected or D.C. connection. Okay. Whatever. And there is some error in connecting with the database. We send it here. Okay. That's it. Only this much. You don't need anything else. You connect with the rest. Who's connected to the UI? If successful, L-U-K-Bit success. You'll be successful. Next time. Or if there is some error. There is. You'll be here. Done. Let's see if the database gets connected. So we'll go to it as.js and we'll open up our server. It's better that I run the server again. N-B-X node node. Yes. Server started. DB. And. Done. Your database connection is now established. With. This. Okay. Now it performs some operations on the database. But before that I want everyone to be on the same page. So at this point I'll push the code. And I know a lot of errors will come up. Right. Not for everyone this will be done very smoothly. There are some errors that will come up. So if you're getting any errors. Anything that is stopping your connection. Do let me know. I'll be working them right now. I will wait here for. Ten minutes. Okay. The. The good I've been pushed. Please connect your servers to your database. And any errors, any issues you get called. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We can have ratings. We set the type 2. Number. Right. And ratings can be there for a course. It cannot be there for a course. So that means this particular field is not exactly required. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Let's pick up a Boolean value as well. Maybe is published. Right. Some courses are published. Some courses are not. So type will be Boolean. We'll identify this with two false. Right. And then, you can just say that this is also required. Right. We'll go the course. We need to know what courses are published. What are not? Okay, now the next step is to create and we have to create according to the rules of this schema. Okay, so we have to perform all the operations post, we, sorry, get, put, delete all these things. Right, so how do we perform operations? To perform operations, right, to manipulate data, to do any kind of thing, any kind of logical thing with this schema, we need to create something known as a model. Right, first we have created a schema and to operate on the schema, we need to create our model. So let's create the model. So how do we create the model? To create the model, we use mongoose.model, simple. Okay, that's it. Mongoose.model and the first thing that you do is you name your model. Okay, so we name our model as course, maybe this is going to be my course and the entire model will follow what rules, will follow the schema rules, this course schema rules. So the model should be initialized with the course schema, that's your model. Okay, and this particular model, you can now hold it in a variable. Let me call this as course model. Okay, done. Now also notice that however written course model, course model is not small, right, the variable name starts with a capital letter, this is a convention, whenever you create models, make sure you start the convention with a capital letter, right, so everyone can write it in my book, this is a model. All right, all right. Now as you have created the model, this model allows you to perform all the operations, all kind of operations that you can think of. Okay, but now we'll have to write a route in which we'll make a request and we'll add the course, right. So for this, maybe I'll just change this route or we'll comment this route and I'll add a new route to create a course. Okay, app.creation. So which method? Post. Then any route you can write for now. Let's use the previous route only, topics slash courses. Okay, request response and the route is ready. All right. Now, whenever we are going to hit on that particular route, we need the data. How do we get the data? So request body. Okay, just talked about it yesterday. All right. How do you get the data? From where do you get the data? Requests body. Okay, so now we'll have to use request body, but for that we also need to parse the data first, right. So for this, I'll just quickly do this. There at the top, we'll go and we'll just write. Exposed. Okay. Okay. So now as we have this middle where as we have our route ready, now we're ready to make our course. So to make our course the first thing, as we need to do, now we don't need to save it in that area. Now we need to, now we actually need to save it inside and database. Okay. So to do that, the model will help you to perform all the operations, right. So over here, we'll go and we will use course model dot. There is this method that we get, which is called as create. Because whenever we are hitting on a course method, very, very high probability that we will try to create course, course model dot create inside this, whatever is received from request dot body, we'll create that entire data. But now there are a few things that we need to take care of. Now we are not dealing with a simple array, which exists in our file only. Now we're actually dealing with a database and that is again one external resource. And when this 8 method will run, a request will be sent to the database, right. So again this entire operation should be asynchronous. So for this the callback will create another async callback and here we will await for the promise to result. And I can see, we are almost done. Okay. Now let's try to create a course from the request body. And I see if I able to create a course at least, right. So for this our server should be running. So let's just check everything quickly. Here, remove the get method against yes. Yes, the server is up and running and to test this, where will go post. Because right now we don't have any client. It's better to test with post and post, right. We'll go to workspace and as you're testing in previous class, same thing will do. The method is post. The URL is local host 8,0008, right. Slash. Topic slash courses. Method is post will go to request body and here we will create our course. Now whenever you are creating body data over here, you're testing. Always make sure it is following all the schema rules. Okay. So let's pick up these things quickly. Course name. Right. Can be anything should be a string, but Java for beginners or whatever. Right. Then move forward and the next thing that we need is an instructor. What's in it? Okay. Then we have what is we have ratings and is problem, right. So we'll just add ratings. 4.7, 4.5, whatever. Then let's add another data which is published. Right. So let's say this course has been published. I'll add Boolean 1.2. Most of you are 10 with all the data in raw resource format. We have added the middleware to pass the data. Our post route is also established. Our model is established as schema is now. All right. Hoping for the best results. Let's send. Okay. Percivalia. I'll remove this extra slash. Yes. Send. And the request is just going on. Because what have we missed? We have missed to send back the response. Okay. So that is one thing that we need. Response.Send. Force.Create. Okay. Something like this. Let us move on and try again. Perfect. We have a response back. Force. Created. Okay. Okay. And now where the course is created? In our database. So we'll go back to our database and we'll refresh database. We check if the course now exists. All right. So if you see there is some data. 7.22kp. That means some data has come. Okay. So to see the data, you have to go to this option which says browse collections. You open this up. And you see the third part. That means local, these things are already existing. They are not our databases. This is our database which is test. Let's go inside test and see. You see there are some courses. If I open this up, you see two courses that we just created. Right. First one, we didn't send the response back. But the data was created. Okay. Now here, important terminologies are going to come up. We have created the database. But what are the over all these things called? Let's talk about them one by one. How was this created? Courses. We didn't mention anything like this. Or we did. We actually did. Right. So if you go and if you see how did you create your model. You created a model with a name. Courses. Which was taken to MongoDB as. Courses. Okay. So this is that particular name which gets automatically translated to a neural fault. And what is this called? This is called a collection. Right. What do we call it? A collection. Right. Okay. So what do you do? You create a schema. From that schema, you create a model. The name that you keep becomes your collection. And inside your collection, whatever data you add, this entire data becomes your. What is the type of MongoDB? Talk to you. So this entire thing, one entire JSON object is one. Talk to you. Okay. Schema. Model. From model we have. Collection. Inside collection we have. Documents. Okay. These are the things that are very important. We'll be talking about them a lot as you move forward. Right. Sometimes we'll use collections, some time models, some time schemas, some times. Documents. Okay. So be aware of what particular thing we are talking about. Okay. Now. What would you think? How did this name come up? Test. We didn't assign any name to our database. Right. We will do that. So how did this name come up? So this particular name is auto assign. If you are not keeping a name for a database. Right. But how can you keep a name for a database? To keep a name for a database, you move back to your URL. Where you had your URL. Index.js here. Right. And in your URL you will find this section where there is one slash error question mark. Okay. This area. So if you do not add anything in between them, your database will be created by the name. Yes. But you want to specifically give some name to your database. Let's say LMS. Learning management system or whatever. Whatever your product is. You can give a name inside. And now when you will create your different database and different products, this would be the database where your collections, your documents. Okay. You can try this. All right. Perfect. So what did we just do today? We created our first entry inside. MongoDB through a server called. Okay. Perfect. Now you know after every class, we have to perform some small tasks. Right. So as I have done post, before the next class, can you try and put the delete? Yes. I'll show you how to do that. But try once. Okay. So what you try? App.put. And I have. Okay. I said, how will you read? I said, how will you read? I said, how to read? Let's say we have to take the course and now want to write that get trouble. So the URL will be the same. And as response, I want to get back all the courses. The courses are created. Right. Two courses we have created. So when I hit on and get trouble, to that URL, that endpoint, I should get both the courses. What would be the logic? I said, what did you do with the model? Use the course model to create. Similarly, for all the operations, for put, for delete, forget who is going to perform all these operations for you, the model. Right. So over here as well, we'll be using course model. Fine. Very nice. And as you want everything, we don't have any specific course in mind. So we just run course model. Fine. Without any parameter. That means find everything. Okay. But still some mistakes are there. A sent them. Okay. This should be a sync. And we await for all the data. Anything else missing? Send back response. Okay. So whatever courses are coming up from the databases, we send them back as a response. Okay. Perfect. Routed. Let's see. By running this, if we are able to fetch the data from our database, we'll move here. And if only the request needs to be changed. Send. We're receiving an MTA. Is something wrong? Okay. Just let's get as to once topics slash courses. Receiving an MTA. Any reasons for this? Most of the things are right. We have topics slash courses at an endpoint. Async await is properly used. As a response, also we are sending back all the courses. And why an MTA? That is something to think about. Okay. Yes. Let's take five minutes to identify this. Let's see if someone can identify. What is the mistake that we are making over here? So we use response dot json. That is one great option. Right. So what we'll do is over here, instead of response dot send, we'll be using response dot json because we're expecting the data in json format. Right. And now let's see. But still we have an MTA. Nice job by the way. But is there something else I can do? Okay. So this find method is not the higher order find method. Okay. This find method is coming out of mongoose, basically a mongoose model. Okay. So this find method is not that map filter reduced while a find. This is different. Okay. And this needs to be used differently as well. Yes. I guess we have some answer over the chat. course dot find. Over here, we need to initialize it with one object. Right. So it will go inside that and we'll try to find all the objects. Right. And now I'm very sure we should get the data. All right. This calls dot send. Courses. Let's go and let's see. Okay. Still we are not receiving the data. Something is absolutely wrong. But we did create our data inside. Right. Should get the data. Let's just log the data once and see if you are even getting it inside the log. Courses. Now there is get sent. All right. Something is not right. We have the course model. Slash topics slash courses. Slash topics slash courses. Async. A course model. Find response. And courses. And maybe we can do that. I'll just reference the database once. Where the data is there, right. And this data should come. Here, course. Yes. Right. Yes. I've got to remove this. That is why all this was happening. Good catch. All right. Now let's try. Yes. We have the data. It was actually trying to get data from some database which is not existing. I was trying to show you to change the name. I'm a son. All right. But yes. Now we are able to get the data. All right. Okay. Similarly, now for put and delete, you will find two special methods. Right. For put requests, Mongoose uses a method find by id and update. And for delete, there is find by id and delete. There are two of these methods which is help you to update or delete the results. All right. So this is going to be a very small number of prerequisites. Just try to explore these two methods. They have to update the resource. We will be exploring these two things in our next class. When we learn about every C and M. And next class is on friday, right. Friday that means tomorrow. We have three continuous classes. All right. Then we will continue tomorrow. Okay. We start with the end S. We start with the end S. We start with the end S page. Oh my gosh. Aadia, Aarav, Aarav, Arsik Mishra, Abhinav Agarwal, Abhinav Mital, Abhinav Halti, Abhishek in the day of sin, Abhuri methi, Adian Shaitri, Arita Karnan, Aayatushukla, Aayatushian, Akasha, Akshans Raay, Akshed Mital, Alvina, Amarcha, Amitansu, Amitsah, Amitansu, Amitsah Amitah, Amok, Amokhanish Rao, Amrit, Aranesh Irma, Antaraman, Aniket, Ankit, Anmul, Anavaradwaj, Anshuljan, Anirix, Anukra, Arham Jain, Arif, Aayin Pranan, Anav Singh, Anav Singh, Arppana, Arif Mishra, Ariman, Arun Nithin Patil, Asadullah Husain, Asadullah Husain, Athar Bhagavad, Hattish Kumar, Ayush Anand, Ayush Vijay, Bavik Jain, Modam Daksitati, Nagashiranya, Harsit, Sinme, Bersheel, Deepak, Nevans, Harul Nambas, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, Harthikhan Raj, Harshael, Harshael Chandak, Harshita, Harshita Sanani, Harshita, Imanshi, Deepak Harsha, Ishan, Ishan Sahil, Ishan Sahil, Jain V, Jai Gyaasujain, Kaneshka, Kartikshit, Kavishiri, Kripa, Pishna, Krish Singh, Kuralya Swal, Kusvikram Patel, Lakshya Lalit, Lakshmi, Lakrit, Malay, Malay, Manas Gandhi, Manas Gandhi, Manashtra, Manaswani Ghar, Manas Sarav, Manmi, Maria Mushraf, Markande Rathur, Manchawadri, Manchawadri, Methan Dev, Mox, Ravidharati, Naman, Naman Rati, Navita, Navya Singh, Nihar, Nikhil Mandohi, Nikonju Anma, Nitin Kumar, Nithu Singh, Pula Kagarwal, Parthavale, Parth Pitya, Rizwan Ahmed Khan, Pavita Rati, Pavitra Patel, Gaurapanchgam, Piyush, Shampotar, Bharatmali, Rukharpande, Prakha Patak, Prakrit, Venavganesh, Ranjal, Pratik, Priyansh Kanna, Praga Bhagavarwal, Rajiv, Rajput Om Sanjay Kumar, Renit, Renujoy, Rashesh, Regency, Rizam Ahmed, Ramchansu Meera, Ritwik, Rohit Sai, Rohit Sharma, Rona Yada, Rutri Patak, Rutwik, Sarkne, Rutwik, Sarkne, Parik, Sai Bhaskar, Sai Chai, Sikad Asra, Salim Rath, Sambriti, Sankriti, Sashwath, Sakti Am Singh, Shikh Pomar Rappi, Shikh Pomar Rappi, Sali Rathor, Sajangana, Sivani, Shemen, Sibral, Sess, Siamhval, Seshwath, Siddharth, Siddharth, Sivani Singh, Sivani Singh, Sivani Singh, Sivani Singh, Sivani Singh, Sotina Savan, Sufyan, Sujan, Sujit Patak, Sujit, Sude Patak Singh, Sarkne, Tahin, Tejas, Trenator, Pushar, Pudin Jain, Witth Punditukhla, Wettung Singh, Wettung, Sari Wank, Roshim Singh, Vedant, Veditan, Vedang Singh, Vishwant, Wixing, Panduman Tanraam, Wion Munda, Gyes Daryani, Gyes Kumar, Gyes Wanda, Gyes Yadav, Dinesh Kumar, Ashleta Rati, Gyes Wanda Ramcharan, Yupa Lehru, Gyes Jaya Ketri, Four Faces, One, three, nine, One, two, seven, Three, nine, Three, nine, One, four seven. Next keyword, the last one. Last ones here. So this would be sequence, boatwe goda. Great job! Okay, all done? You You You You You You You You You