you you you you so We one of the top factors is going to later on, which is not an entire chain. Now, by and tell you this time, it is a same thing as we discussed in the function, which is a different time, some of the core components, right? But we wanted a, a specific solution, that is going into the mixer for machine, and I also go to for what it will be in a condition to keep it in the world, and bring it to the type of thing in the function. So, this concept is like really really important. So, just, just, you know, just kind of if you realize that how this concept is working on, and why it is so important to understand, actually going through that how we are going to optimize it, because, right, how basically we are going to be able to do that, but also, this function that the gradient design, like what actually, the gradient design, is going through the, there is the, the meaning will be, chain will come time to time, I would have a, a whole market will be a same, right? So, today, this is a short time, we want to understand that, I would remind this gradient, and this is what we are talking about, and that will be input to the problem, the other, of, such as, this will be like value-group thing, and, there, evaluate for movements, there is a number of, you know, start, or, this start of the, so, and then, that one is, like, what, we are going to cultivate, and, you know, has a point of use that, and, so, then, probably, what becomes point of use, especially, because, like a wave, or this counter curve, is that it's like really important. It will ensure that your model approaches as they might add up to most up to school, but actually another input case so that it will be there in your mind. And for the part of my field, see like there's a great insight option that they're all by the way, I use a creative insight, if this does not hide on the user's insight, which is the graduate insight, really graduate insight and so much creative insight. So these three, you really have to see that is like this one's actively moving to it and by the way, it should be much easier. I'm a previous class, you also learned about this, but say this is nothing, but any of the features will be to consider it in columns, right? So that is one part and we see that by a statement, they leave it from the previous class. That is used in the data, you can see that it is getting the state of the paper that how it will be affected for all of our algorithms. So that is the feature that we will see with very, very important, right? So on the first slide, it's sort of a real good occasion from data that used and we were okay with the mind of the best data that used, right? I told you that there is a cost of, sorry, normally function equation, last time, the equation which has the formula of data in the data, so you will see the best data that today. So how does the data, you can see the features which are not available. So why that thing was not okay, right? So till now, I don't think I've learned that is what we find, but they have their pros and cons. So you have the concept, the concept of the sphere, I've learned one model, but it is not actually the existence that we have already got, right? Let me put it to it. It makes sense, but for those people, which are having like less, what is, let's start with, it's small data, it's two totally structure, it being an everything. But once you push it to something very, it is required, so I'll talk a bit out, to you, right? So that's why we actually needed to create this and any identify data in this one, what was the whole thing to go ahead with this type of solution that is proposed in that, anything that you can do is beyond the last step. This, you know, so see this by the head, trying to be free, which is very, after all, right? So like, you can think of it at the end, and by the data is, I just, really needed, not to need you as I go, to tell you that. Well, perfect, I'll give you a little, so really it's me, like what is that, I'll give you a little, like, so see what happens, when you are familiar with a lot of digital data, right? So we just see, the data is, and we are, I think what is, transport, right? So if you are making a, you can just pass code, and everyone is already, like, so my name starts code, I'm not using words. There is a lot of, preparation, a lot of computation, and even the future is, so if you are trying to, not to, the reason that is, okay, but if you are trying to, if you are trying to, if you are trying to, if you are trying to, even to go to, even to go to, then your competition, and I will be, very, very high, in the lyrics, for creation, and it is close to, and it will be, please, in the years, then approximately, the time promise is, it will be, going to be, one in the end, two, right? So in practical words, and three, other, and we will become, we want to have a, generate, please, of information, that is, in perspective, where you are creating the project. A poor idea, that you can apply, machine learning, going forward, in the first certificate, sort of, a success, right? Where you are, the village, which is, an app grandpa, So, we have one solution which is only by making for one model where the net fails out or fails out, then there is a clear system that is correct. So, only forward any algorithm comes into the future, we have to learn in previous or previous versions what has happened to that. That is like more critical task that no one likes to learn that. So, we to find out all the links, then the critical is in the global, right. So, we wanted something to be generalized so that it can be used more, maybe modified, at least modified, for further algorithm switch and for you to have a little bit of a problem. And that is what the great design actually does. Okay. Now, there is a solution, right. What really is a solution? I will take it. Some time to make the one-wise hand for the situation. So, I am not sure if you have already learned the videos from Andrew and J. or something like that. So, he has a very direct app on it, then the software gets to go with any other output. One of the good things to say is that if you have a operation, you do all of the 100% visual look. So, that those text books are having this distribution for very different, right. There is be other x-goo requests that they have this distribution. So, why? Because, actually, the distribution is, so for example, they try to run their basic app, but they make it very, very matching with what they are doing. Just, I will talk about the ones that are being shared in the form. So, what happens is in gradient design, we have two worlds, right. Gradient, I guess, right. So, gradient is nothing but the height, right. And this is the, as the names of this, we are going downwards, right. So, that is one of the annoying. Why so? So, in text books, expectation and the intuition, they are showing the client. Let's suppose, of course, in its bandwidth, at the top of the hill, right. And, like, the hill is there, but I need to know what value, right. So, I do this at the, and there is a slow down, down, right. Like, like, when you use to draw something like a river flowing from two mountains or something. So, the, the, the back surfaces there, between the two mountains, right. And, the two mountains are side by side. Suppose, like, presence, I mean, a lot of one mountain, right. And, as the group higher from the right, we do this cloud survey, right. So, now, that we see anything from the top to the bottom here. So, basically, the intuition is that I am standing on top of a hill, right. And, I am not able to see the next steps, right. I am going to cloud, but not able to find out the steps, the next steps, that I can see downwards, right. I am not able to, like, I am not able to see anything, okay. So, example, it takes a, I have, if I be possible, that there, I already do first, both all you need is not it. If I do both all, I want one, there is something high, right. And, if I go ahead and step back, there might be possible that I get, be a little bit down from my current order, right. So, there are two way only. I have been pleased about it, or else, you may not. But, I was now standing at this position, I am not sure, that which step leads one. I will take it and then I get it, right. So, that is the own idea, right. How the area is going to work, right. So, first, see this, not, this is the false function, right. False function is like, you might be lost function. Lost function is what, the distance could be fine, actually, and pretty good, right. So, actually, pretty good, right. We are having the, actually, we wanted to provide, right. That's what we are about. This is the space that we want to cover. We want to provide, excuse it, like, the more, the most people, right. So, the next is, I am standing at one point, and, and, going above, like, the highest open is, it might be lost function. Now, what I am going to do, I am going to go to the shift, I am talking, and as a, that is, of the data. So, previous, the data, I am data, right. But now, we have the place, because, because, we have different, we have the same, as the function, but then, in the previous, the data, the results, the results of it. And now, as we have the help, it has to, same, and, take that out. It has to, this, but, you might not be able to, either it will go above, down. What is, like, there, it will go above, and so, as created, it is a piece, we are, it is easy to, right. We are not going above. And then, we have the learning, that means, the steps, to the science, for example, if I take one step, like, in my learning, if I take two steps, then, it's my learning, if I take one step, it is, it's a, when steps, I can't, then, it's my learning, and, right. And we fast, that, it's to, a, science, to, that is, become a time, and, and, as we shoot, the info is, one, I have to reach the value, that is, I have to reach the minimum, that, success, data. Now, I am talking, it also, the, I will, so, what happens? Now, I come either right, and side, I am balancing, so, when the become what? There is, what, how, how, how,ances? Do we change, we, to, search a game. That means, you might become a, need my financial, or social, not to, maybe not, am. So, what I will do, I will know is, I am silent as the A1 step, then I will get a MySet that has a real loss function on the A1 step. So, that is the real loss function, then I will try to take another step. That step, you needed my loss function and my provision of data to that step. So, slowly, slowly, something like 1 1 1 steps and that is going down, I will take a clear and we will just go with the telegram. Okay, I can allow you to, this is what created a center. Same thing. So, this is the type of a metaforc that is related to the data, the data, the solution example. So, this is the same in general, I will find that at the A and B, I will get the X-axis. So, my entire rate is 2, my steps and to decrease my cost function, whatever cost function is there. So, the analogy here, we are always talking about the gradient design, but the analogy that they have for graded, we have to move in the opposing direction, the loss is increasing. So, what I have done, if I took a step now, if it is a small step, that is the reverse producing my loss function. Then, I will move the type direction. If my step has the model step at the end, it is increasing my loss function. So, that is what I have done. So, basically, I have to decrease the high-profile rate, because it is my loss function. So, I will take my value to the limit of the group, my limit is at 10 years of average, so, I will move each the line. So, from me, the error is one of the high-profile rate, I will move the line. So, I will move the line. So, from me, the error is one of the high-profile rate. I want to move it, but that direction is specifically where my list height is 80 degrees, apart from the probability rate. That is the average that we are talking about, graded. Now, the difference, we can see the slope. So, going forward, I will get to how that volume can also be a kind that, yeah, going to each the global level, that is a bit much more example of what happens. I will say that, if you are going from blockade, blockade, right. So, that is it. That is the example for a ventilation rate. So, we will start running from it, right. And, you will run till the class of blockade, and then, when you are about to reach the class, you will slow down those speed, so that you can easily enter the class. Otherwise, that is why we are running at the same speed, we will crash the rate at 10 to the right. So, that is the analogy, right. So, if you are far away from the main line, the model is so sensitive that it will take good steps there. But, the size of the steps, only down the length, I have not reached the value, it will, it will, it will, it will, it will, it will, it will, it will, it will, it will, so that it can get a, it will, that is my analogy, that is the whole analogy, that is the rate percentage for a few months. Now, going to the next slide. This picture, this is like the universal picture, the rate is, every time I have that, this is a graph picture. So, what I told you, initial divorce, we are, you know, value, right. So, we will have a value that we both, I have a third, and then we have to take a global hypothesis, a base of this graph, two-sided rate. The last graph is that, this graph, it will, I have 6, we have 6, we have 6, we have 3, we have nothing but a loss function, right. We have the other screen, we have 6, we have 6. Standard notation followed by a label. The next variable, if you call it as t, or whatever you want to call it, but there is a standard proposition, that is what I would like every report. So, we are giving it a different thing, that is the loss function, right. Now, what happens? We have started from that point, that is a very tight, right. Now, our global advantage is, this place where the global rate is tangent, right, one point is, there is a relatively valid root excess, right. So, that point has to be, that point, we have to reach. So, if that point will reach, the point is that I will go to, it will go very well. That point, this point, will make our data more divided, right. So, once I take it as a make-up, that means my error is minimum, my loss function, very to the minimum, that is the data, right. So, I showed you, I will go to, just now, that concept, shape, cycle, what happens. When you start from the, you start from the, so, it will go from there, and it will take us, now you can see that, okay, I haven't reached the global level. It will take you, let's step down, it will get close to the global level. As it is getting closer to the global level, the size of the sets, I made shape, right. I am talking about the size of the sets, I am not talking about the elements on hand, there is seven new areas to see, right. I think, it is close to the, at the end, that they want to, but we will use the global level, that is the global level. So, for example, and what, I will start, I will do a little bit, let me see the second slide, what is there. This is the destination. Okay. I will start, I will start, I will start, the, I will start or Can you, I will start it. There is 7 white, Alice Orchard and wiki that goes today, you can give första ray. My computer is a computer and you can't see the code that works. But it will be a computer, it might miss out. So that is one of that. So as we are going closer to my computer, I set the size will be the same. The data will come from 8.8.2.2.3. You will have the system of drop-in, drop-in, drop-in, error, error, error, sound error, root error. And you are allowed to reach the class, if you don't slow down. Then what will happen is rush through the gate, see this. It will go down, where it will be, I mean, go over that side of the slope. So if you are reaching the destination, where I have to reach the destination, then I set the time becomes slow. The acceleration becomes slow. That means the analogy of this diagram. And then now we are going to the screen. That is the horizontal part. ELOR Yes. OK colors. So one other harm, then you have a U.S. So, my capital is from let us say you are idealized right you have this problem and I post now that the post the last destination got this problem. So, you will just throw down your life I first if you don't throw down what will I do I will pass the post you have to again come back right that is the city that I take in the valley example valley example is what I do and I understand get this thing and there is a valley there and I took up very long step to jump right I was going to like move to the valley I will land and some higher that the other hill right. So, that is the city that I am ordered rise to my boy right it is not bad even time some somewhere like closer to the global number 3 is a past the global that is more so you have to make sure that but descending right you are not jumping hopping like radiant descent is there it is not hopping right you walk from one point to another it might be possible like to keep on hopping on the valley but you there is a lot of global number global minimize that thing by it is like the other I am doing it if you want to see if you can see in this that is my my axis is my daily life is for as my lost nation the best possible city to come these to be at the point of this dog there my tangent at that point or the loss of that point is many one does it like it is not a big time to be at the axis right all I can do this to go to the but I can do that with my axis then I that is my daily life right. So, that is the whole objective that you want to achieve right this is like all the order not to achieve that minimum possible loss function to be there. So, yeah that is one thing then again it become down to this position you know first to have a look to the equation right and this is not the basis which idea is created and then this is what is created is actually these ok. So, loss function is what loss function loss function orderly you want to call it it is the same loss function is what come in the attack of a loss form absolutely right. So, we want to when my cover was from the tangent the addition and this is how the created this is about to be able to do. So, what is happening in this equation is a three-dimensional field of other in this region there would be but I it is created by what is it is not we saw that he called it is a loss function but created this is a three-dimensional. So, we have to make a sound data that is remember so, the point higher noise function is written as 1 1 2 and this one number of observations ok. So, we have the number of conservation at the end we have the loss function cost function the error function whatever we want to call it as j theta t guys nothing right the parameters. So, every thing is here my right and why I do not mean I equals to enter it that is created by this action. So, what we have in this equation is like we are not whatever observations for example, there is one thousand of observation. So, for each observation that we need the actual uncredited and we have subtracted from created by this actual we are squarely they are getting the square root now that some is 0 to 1 hour right. So, we are taking a very old observation subtracted from that which I did the same thing that is a square right. So, you know I might write by 1 by 9 then what it was mean square to the mean right. So, like there is a two-dimensional it is written specificity that that two is just that is because we want to make the entire parece actually a converted and take the 4 square root to be a 0. What we see to be a slight larger ceux weasa accumulate this actually largerwhere we make any surface draw US mp sorry it is not ultra bladder but it is so large So, I take my way to here, why do you guys let me put theta non plus theta 1 x i, x i we go like we want theta 2 x 2 x 3 x 4 like that. So, in case if I was moving back to the linear region I would have written a theta 1 theta 1 x 1 theta 2 x 2 like that ok. So, now we have to place the theta from theta and this is written in this fashion. So, the first part is clear, the equation is that now what I have is if I do not have the equation, I do a dispensational j theta 1. Then, that is the approximation that we have written. So, what happens here that, they are getting into the respect of 1 theta right. So, theta has a vector and then we will do it. So, first we will differentiate into the respect of 1 theta 2. That is the definition of the respect of 2 now 1. Then, the definition of the respect of 2 theta 2 right. So, the first one is the definition of the respect of 1 theta 2 ok. So, just have a little bit of a equation. So, both of them are like same equation only, but why are you taking a x i and then you are not taking a x i and then you are not taking a x i and then you are essentially any idea. So, the definition is you see this thing, this is the function. Why I have minus y i? This is the function, this is not a square, x square right. So, x square, this is the situation you would wish right. So, 2 2 will get it done. So, that is why I am able to take 2 initials just have the arbitrary number. So, that my association becomes at the mean ok. That is my equation ok. Now, this thing goes there 1.1 becomes 1 by l right. So, now 1 by l, summation of y at minus y i which is my other function for all 1, 2 and whatever is there. Now, there they have the 7th position x i, then there is the 7th position x i. So, 1 by l, 1 by l, 1 by l, 1 by l, 1. So, we got, we got 1 is 1 by l of x right. So, if we are having this 1, so even if it could come we have to prevent it from getting there. But, what ? x i is x i is already present the features. So, if you take what is happening, just try to get this is the equation, this is equation, the equation will always get. But, what is this equation trying to say? That if I want to differentiate my loss function, why I get this function? You know that if we differentiate ? That is what my slope right. So, if my differentiation is negative and decreasing my slope, if my differentiation is positive and increasing my slope right. So, I told to the third example right, if the whole idea is to decrease my slope and get into the global limit that means to differentiate this differentiation right, this loss function I want to increase. And, if you see this loss function this is nothing but the summation of error into every feature minimized. This is features right, the ? is a 1. So, we have it mentioned in it, we will follow it to the error into ? mean that is my differentiation of the slope I want to minimize that. So, this is the whole idea from there. See, do not you just remember this and like it will go into a little bit just that from where it is coming and from where it is going to just have to see the equation tell that at least what that equation is. So, it is not like you have a number of equations that it is one and one and sigma, y i, y i, y i, y i, y i, y i, you should be able to say that this is the way from where it is coming, by the way, basically, you know, by that, because I mean, by the way, you are taking the differentiation of the equation is nothing but the ? is the slope. So, my slope is this, you are getting to me get this, then I get exactly this. So, and then I expect that is my, the ? change in that is going to be the difference between this slope. So, the data is in what does it is, the analogism of the data is like for that. Don't think if someone asks you that data is in what actually the data is in this, it is like you, you will not say the answer that the data is in itself ? that I am increasing the slope. The data is in this, that, that is the point that is hiding from my calculation, this i, i go, ? it is not that. So, for example, I go to the first step, right, I am standing at the point, okay, and I am not knowing anything that is coming forward, I am not knowing the necessary whether it is height or whether it is ? it is slope, it is slope, it is slope, like I stated, but what this it is height, right. So, if it is height and gradient is a bit of ? to go to the positive direction, when this is height. So, if we are going into the positive direction of this type of a height, then we are increasing our height from the top of the hill, which is going towards the slope of the ? that is the slope, like for that over slope. Okay, now, if we move to this, this is what, this is what I am going to do, right. So, please be very first, like, what was written there in O B duty, right. So, for those who were not there, in the very first, like, in the first form solution, the first form solution was what? Normal equation that we learnt in the last lecture, that was used to take up my, our best possible value of the ? that should be put there into the linear regression. Okay. So, this was getting me a cost function about O B duty, right. So, close form solution was what? Close form solution was the main failure, right. That equation was there, it would be the main task of the value of the ? that is the ? that is the features of the ? that I am going to do that, that I am going to do that, that I am going to do that, that I am going to do that. If it is ? that I have also made a difference high around 2. So, that was my idea, that close form equation itself was my idea. And that close form equation was not at the table, 2 3 base algorithm, the restification, we do not have any ? also we did a ? that was my ? point of concern, right. So, now, in this equation that I have shown you, this equation, right. The idea of the root title, of the root pattern means 1, just proper analogy, right. There we have given you ? here we have given you ? right. Same, there we are given a ? now we are having a ? function is a slope, right. We want to decrease the degree of the slope to get into the normal rhythm. So, there the close form equation was to there I have the best value of ? where this equation of ? is 2 the right ? the best value of ? right. ? ? is nothing but ? at the hillside what I am telling you, just give the intuition. The ? is nothing but my position, right. So, this I am at this ? and I am going down that in every iteration I am updating my current position, right. So, I am keeping on updating my current position to each of the normal rhythm possible, right. So, that is the good idea. So, we need to update the ? which is my current position, right. What the model is having. So, if we need to like update my current position going forward iteration I need a rule to update the current position that rule is nothing but that update root, okay. So, that is why we needed just a second. Yeah, that is why we needed this update root, okay. This is this is the one. This update root must be read. Why is it showing that we have a ? which is why? Take it as a ? we can give. Because it is getting a bit like add-on now, expand it there. After my iteration has kind of somewhere else, then somewhere else. The worst way is like the ? it is different on the whole ? and we are at this step size, this is my ? learning array. And what we are doing. We are ? we are changing my G8 ? right. There is no change in them. So, we are decreasing the cross-function with respect to the step size and then we are minus, like those that cross-function from my current position, then we are making my new solution. That is the entire work of the . Okay. So, do not have to memorize it, just like get the idea that how the gradient design is actually function. If someone asked me like how it is a function that must be able to say like this, I am updating my current position based on the other position, the direct time vector, the global ? function, right. And see, this, this thing is written here only previously also. This thing was what I could do with the combination here, this is my two-seach. Right. Here the same thing has been written. See, gradient is nothing but this is a mean of every error in the line-seach. Right. So, each feature will cause some error, right. Previously, what we were doing was taking all the things but we are not considering the feature. Right. So, now we are considering the feature as well. That is also the area of, now we will see that this feature is there and how much like it comes out. So, X i and 4, X i and the feature then. So, let us say for example, you are predicting the house price and my feature as you is 0.1 and my house price is like 5. So, that whole thing 0.1 and 5 will be multiplied. Right. So, I will get some value. Then my values dependant on X i also. So, right now if my X i is 10, then that value will be getting increased. Right. So, the feature is also very, very important as combined with each and specific errors. Right. So, you are able to see that, okay, my house price is like 50. I have predicted 65. The error is 5. Now, we are saying that same thing but it turns off feature and you want to decrease that thing. So, this is what gradient actually needs. We have error and we have that error-covid specific feature. We are combining it with any company and we are trying to run out. Right. Go now in the sense. We are trying to go in the lower middle of the right. So, the first equation is here. The previous equation is here. The previous equation what was that? That is the recap. The previous equation. These two things will be done. Like only two equations are there for each equation and they are there. One can be on top of it. Just have a good idea that the first equation is there. You can see it is nothing but the loss function, theta is my current position. The current position loss function, we want to minimize it. By the way, theta has values. When I talk about theta, go to my current position. We can take the value, we can go to the bottom, we can go to theta and so on. Right. We take the matrix function. So, the gradient is my overall loss function. I have given a 1-merit human summation of 1 to n whatever number of observations I am taking that error, square error. So, if I just assume 2 from here it becomes as my mean square error and I am disorientating that. So, I am disorientating that if my square error becomes my simpler mean error. Right. Now, it is expected to theta. That means my x1 x2 and x4. So, as you said at the top that we are not having any kind of a x related to theta 0, which is my implicit. So, here I will divide it by 1. Then it comes to the outside. We are not inclined to write x2. That means like x1, x2, x2 will power. So, now this is the entire derivation from there. The gradient is in term and my goal is to minimize this loss function, which is dependent on my current position. Law function is theta, theta right. Dependent on what? Theta. So, if the theta is my dependent thing, then I want to decrease the heat up. Right. So, my a3 theta going forward will be something minus my current theta. And that something is what? What we are degrading. What we are decreasing from the loss function. So, that is the first thing is my whole new theta, which is something minus the whole theta. The whole theta is like right inside of the equal to right. This one is my whole theta. This is my new theta. So, my whole position, if I minus something from my whole position, then my new position will get up naked. Right. So, this is the whole idea. Okay. Yeah, I think the best way to memorize this is this only and theta. Now, before moving to the solid example, just any kind of a down there in here, I have had the sanitary areas and how it is going to be any here. So, I think, you know, I am going to do this again. Okay. So, you know, you cannot see the pressure. If it is a lot different. It is a lot much nicer than. It is a draw of a lot better. How many times can I write? But it is, if you can have a lot different. So, it is not very good. And it is based on the degree. Right. So, last time it was based on time. So, by example, let us delete off again. So, either direction, either turning, close-up position. Right. Close-up position, but specifically, I am talking because he very specific, he was too very much a down there of theta. Okay. He was what? Proceeds and theta. But when I talking about theta, then it is my problem. Right. Time will be small. See, we cannot say, theta is more universal. When I am talking about the slope. Right. So, any any any any grass like linear relation of this, we wanted a straight line. So, if the equation changes to y is equal to x is y. Gone the question on whatever the circle equation, whatever it is. That even have the slope where minimum, if I plot a loss function, that function will still have a slope. There, where minimum, where the loss function on the y axis will hit the minimum target. Right. So, for that case, if we are using theta, we were taking the best light of theta, right, to find a direct equation. There, here, there is the best angle of my correct position to minimize the loss function. And I use the dissipation through a, through a means that we will provide any kind of loss function, really, like the number of times, this is more general, like we are not specifically finding out the value. We are just updating the hydration number. Right. Eta was specifically the weight, specific weight, right. But here, I am taking my, this is my direct position, right. Eta was one related to correct position. I just assumed that this is the best possible, I looked at it, okay. But here, one time, right, this is my direct position. I take the step and see if it is going down, right, from top to bottom. So, that step is this. Take it up, right. Based on what this is the loss function as the practice, generation of the loss function, we are taking the scope. And this is my journey, right. I have taken the perspective of this taking, right. So, this is my correct position, I have taken a step, right. Now, that step should decrease to get another theta, which is a period of, so every time I take my particular theta steps, to get to the minimum. Eta was a single position, don't get. To the value of the appropriate target type, that comes out. But, it is a very large, okay. I take that one step, I minus that one step from my grandparents step, then I went one step down. Now, then I went one step, I remember that then I went again down, again down, then I reached, okay. Eta was like, there was one formula, good. Okay, this is the possible theta I look, the best possible theta I look, that I can put and then, that derivation. It is not like that. Assumption is same, right. Assumption is totally same. There we were put in theta value, but it was not self-identifiable, right. But, like minus anything from theta, right. Veta, which I will put in the equation, you got the right. But, here you are, you are not even, I think the law, function is on the parent situation. So, you are standing at a thought of the, you have a theta step down, it is now, then you minus that step from here, and you have created yourself. Now, that is going to an idea, what you are going to think is one line. So, the idea is not for any other algorithm. There is like, three or something, which is coming, then this is the proof that we are taking, this is a, like, good approach, other than the line of one single line. Okay. So, that was the idea, so, now, anything which is not like, in the mind, and this is not ready here, before going to the solid example, looking at the solid example. There is, from, there is a, from the picture, one to there, anything which is causing a discrepancy, not getting to understand, because after that, I think, law distribution will come. So, the entire algorithm will change, inner regression is done, like, after gradient design, not done, actually, but yeah, it is the, the whole idea is done, now, we move to law distribution, then, again, it will go to my, very straight-up, then, for three days, I will know, or something will come. Anything which is not making sense, any kind of questions on this one, which is not, like, you can't even relate, the whole idea is to have a relation, like, you, whenever, like, when I was going to learn machine learning, like, it took me, like, it's a punch, it's a high, high, it totally agree on this. But, why it is confusing, is, like, we are not able to, over-release what is happening, right? So, usually what happens, we know what, the inner regression is, we know what the formula is, we know what, we describe it, but, when, what, and when it is going to be utilized, when it is going to be not, you can, like, it's a very straight-up problem, what is the solution of that problem, that, the case is not happening in the machine, I think, that, what makes a little bit, that's the solution. So, I was already, I was not able to, link the topics from start to end. So, I know that what features are still in this. But, why it is needed? Like, if I don't do features, it is in a very prepared way. That thing is needed to be, get the chance, right? So, anything which is from start to end, not in sense, or not, or in a particular way, is to try to follow it, you can do one thing, going forward, or when, if you are revising, then, I would suggest that, if we are trying to go into, a machine running domain, and if you are again trying to go into deep into deep learning domain, try to follow one thing, like, that, that is something that my friend has also been doing, and it really worked out, is, is, is, into deep learning, and, really, really, really, really, really, really, that I told him, have a flow chart, right? And, like, study entire machine learning, and deal in a flow chart, right? So, the first thing is, like, we started from machine learning, started, linear regression, what it is, how it is, where it is, in that, in the direction of the linear regression, didn't work out, then, the next layer of that, then, why it didn't work out, what was the function there, then, the next layer of that, so that, if you, that track, you will be getting clear that, I started from there, and I went there, why I went there, what was the intuition behind, I went from one algorithm to another algorithm. So, the best and easy possible way is to, build a hierarchy, and you know, that this is the flow, so, we layer it is connected to that, because I'm going to feature this, doing this, if I'm not doing it, it's breaking like this, then, if I'm going to feature this, then, linear regression, it is something like that, if I'm going to feature this, then, you have to log this integration, it is something like that. So, just make a mind, and then, learn, it will be, like, really, really, use for you, don't play good things to learn, like, like, the entire machine learning idea is very, very, okay? So, now, nothing, nothing to us, or anything from the last session, something, which is not many sets. Okay. Okay. So, now, this is about example, point 2, take 5 minutes break, or, okay, finish this off, then, take 5 minutes break. See, I think this, we have very nice and wide, with the points, right? So, I told you, from there, we have a relation point, people are calling the line, that's half an intuition, right? The points that still the coordinates, right? So, with my actual point, actual point, whatever data has plotted, because on x and 1, x is that point was there, right? It's nothing but a coordinate, right? So, if I, if I take the point, and that is the moons, I, right? That is actually what it is, right? So, that means, if I exit what my features, why is what my predicted items, right? So, is I, hit the right, like, spot on the graph, okay? With respect to x and y, that landed exactly on the actual point, that I'm going to, right? So, from there, we begin to this, say, say, intuition, say, x and y, there are two points, which is, I think, one point, one point, one point, that means, what? It's the first point, we are having one, as my x-convy, and two, three, three, two points, two light, one, one, one is my future, and two is my predicted one, okay? And for the second, one, two is my future, and two is my predicted, right? Here, okay? So, this is my 1-b, or first one, now going back to the equation, very first equation. This, this, this is same, same as the one we got, right? And, this is quite a, this is the Arabian. Now, we keep on obtaining the parameters, right? We keep on obtaining, we keep on obtaining, what? updated. Finding on the new updated. But the other value was nothing, minus, right? It was threshold new value, okay? So, by going back to, then see, what my white height is, then, if my white height is having the, like, larger space distance from my actual map, then I will put a threshold new value, but, that, you just want to relate it to that, okay? Then, we have a pd, So, by that 3 aggregation will be each the minimum ok. So, this is my equation for getting the idea that is my period period ok, which is what? Because you know if the one x 1 whatever that is each other. So, if I go that into the example here ok. So, we are going x 1 y 2 1 1 1 that means my future is 1, period is 2 ok. So, second 3 we are going x 2 y 3, future 2 ok, period is 2 means not 2 number 2 and period is actually 3 ok. Now, we want to find the y that the very question will be 1 theta 2 plus theta 1 x i say the question for y i and after question what is it? Yes I think theta 0 equals to you know and theta 1 is equal to 0 both right. So, 0 ok and learning rate is point of learning rate is based learning rate is something that you will also take base right. And I tell you know like what learning rate actually turns to it if you try and do a lot of experimentation to learning rate might well either he like super would to you or otherwise it will ruin the entire model also ok. So, this is what is given actually question is this that you have to find 1 2 and 2 3 and I am starting with theta values as 0 0 both I am starting with the origin right the theta values. So, I am starting with origin and then learning rate is 1 1 ok. Then if I want theta 0 and theta 1 into the page side then my y hat will be 1 0 because the positions theta 0 and theta 1 is 0 ok. So, my y hat will start in the 4th position anything will come y hat will be 0 but both are the ones and the errors if you want it to come y hat will be 0 my error will be 1 minus 2 and minus if I move the first one we are having the actual as 2 and the second one we are having the actual as 3. So, in my y hat is 0 my first error will come as my as 2 and my second error will come as minus 3 right. So, that is my error that I work instead of move that we are taking the slopes on both of the points. So, the slope was what coming back here is same that you have calculated this y hat we are seeing that there is a first one is going to be theta 1 theta 1 if there were more theta than slope according to that same equation written in there here the same question I am going to do the first slope is going to be this way to d j upon d because 0 the second is going to be this way to d j upon d theta 1 ok. So, d j upon d theta 0 is not even 1 we are having 1 1 2 the error y hat minus y hat was there right. So, here in my x 2 I am just giving you minus 2 by 5 the same error and the second one we are having the features also right d theta 1 which is with respect to x i for theta 0 we do not have x. So, we did not multiply it by x but for theta 1 we were having x right in the equation. So, if we were having x what is the I am trying to say it but for the first x with multiplied by 1 the second x is not going to be like this is going to be like this then now we will have a different position of both the I assume I try to minus go here anything which is not going to be in section today here should I repeat it again once 1 meter to the meter here then once we are having the loss function done. So, going back to the slide. We found that the error is through now what will update the parameters the next slide was nothing but we will update it we will see and it will go and decrease or not we will update the parameters same thing. Now, this theta the first theta that we started was 0 theta theta not right. So, first we kind of was 0 what was the I was the the rate that we assume 0.1 we put it at same function this function right the the data and the function ok theta we are calculated theta was 0 alpha the rate that we have given to the portion was 0.1 and then j theta. So, if we put the values just put the values that is we will that we are going to start of with theta we got to 0 ok and 1 1 the rate which is already in the portion and this is the error that we have 1 1 j theta right. So, we put that because the theta was 0.25 ok and that is become one same thing we have put 0 1 1 1 for the differentiation as 1 1. So, put it just what the I was going to do now from my theta 0 my value for nu theta 0 has become 0.25 from 0 and from my nu theta 1 has become my s was function right. Now, I will see if the cost has longer not ok. So, I have what this will do I use theta 0 1 2 and theta 1 theta 1 2 that my equation was what my hat is also theta 0 plus theta 1 x 1 then I will put the nu value if I had 0.25 plus 0.4 into x right. So, for each of the things that you put x 1 there it will strain and the prediction will go to point 6 5 and point 1 5 in this equation earlier the prediction was what 0 plus 0 x 1. So, it was 0 now we are looking this back right. So, 0 into the x 1 part if we are taking the equation we will go into point 6 5 and point 5 and my actual was what my actual is 2 and 3 right. So, are we going close to our actual previously we were about 30 to 0 right. But now we have already 1 0.65 and 1 point 5 then the error is like my house 1 point 3 and 1 point 5 you can subtract it from 2 and 3 like this right. So, I will get this number. So, I will get this number. So, this was where we started ok theta 0 0 prediction what are our 0 right for both of the guys both of the guys ok. Now we are having nu theta value so, I have to put some money right. You have a nu theta down ok. Done? nu theta that you was what 0.25 and 0.4 for theta 0 and theta. 0.25 and 0.4 for theta 0 and theta. So, what was the first solution? This is what predicted of the first steps first steps what is 0.6 time something was there point was what point anyone the members I also that it was 1, 2 and 2, right. So, 1, 2, 1, 2 and 2, 3. So, 1, 2 and 2, 3. So, 1, 2 and 2, 3 then when I put the theta not value theta not value this thing for the first first equation ok. So, first equation and x 1, 1 this one. So, that is why I put it 1 x i right. So, for my x I will get the first part which the actual was 2 and now by how to we are getting point 6 by earlier what we were getting 0 right. So, the gap decrease right when we are getting it feel up ok. Same thing for that also. If I am by 2 to calculate it can be this is the same equation will just put x 2 2 right. So, it will be getting point 8 point 4 into 2 point 4 into 2 will be getting point 8 plus 0.25 ok. Then that will also be what I am saying calculate the right it on something but I will get up there it is now right. So, now my actual equation actually previously even it is divided 0 but now we are getting for course we are getting point 6 by and the other was by we are getting just putting 2 here in other whatever it becomes what 1.0 by what whatever the other is not. So, that can do from 0 0 it was in 3 it is by the tradition. So, if it is a theta it is in close to this why it is getting close to this because the updated the alpha alpha sorry theta alpha ok. We started off the origin then we are getting like the entire is what we updated this and do we will see like the average may fact we are getting closer that is very this is class ok. So, see when you do the code now actual code right there is library it is built in that is having this all maps which is there you will just import read and disemperate will work right. But if someone asking what how it is going to be importing the library see time like that is going to be a day day if you write 10 lines of code as of now you will see that the code has written like most rowers most rowers I have you like whatever have you used like stable over slide or something like that anyone has used. Have you seen the extent of optimization that like model does absolutely same like you you do not even know that it will think you at such a grass root level not that it is like the software tell the first in the actual company actually they are spending like 95 percent of the time making the system without an architecture right once that has been finalized not they just want to like go back to the itself whatever and read whatever I read anyway they use the best model out there they draw up or go into writing actually put in the next type or you do it will write a 10 lines right. But I think this like the module code has written and I want to change something that is the place that there the understanding comes into the next. So, if I know that gradient descent has been used and I know the working of the gradient descent that yeah this is working in this way that is how I am using getting calculated again this is working in this way this works that way okay. My problem solution is this is the best way that I can go forward both important next. So, for knowing that how it is working to see last class also I think I can tell that how to tell the other than R square. Then by that I was teaching very much inflation factor I have also given a mathematical example that is my R square is increasing my inflation factor is increasing. Here also some kind of a map that actually what is the calculation behind the gradient descent how it is getting calculated. In the same we started off the C low-cello parameters to differentiate it easier one in the term 0, easier one in the term 1 okay. Then we updated up to the parameters of the C that are error function this minimizing one part right. It gets minimize this is it is a clear result in the gradient descent that is going to be like a background right. So, it is clear of the steps that the gradient descent is working then it will be easier for people to go into a more robust solution there this will not work right. So, for example if everything has been created only then try the companies are like going in a solution to build like more robust thing like algorithms are already created. So, in real world the doodh they will rely on a single algorithm there is a stacking concept you know like stacking concept is not there I think you will get to know it maybe if you go like deep into ML or so. So, I also do not know it is at least by doing this I think I use it but I do not have a lot of clarity on the stacking okay. But stacking is what the practical world is right. So, for example like you are having like 10 things come into the place right see data and this I have an analogy data was there we calculated one single algorithm data but we were never able to respect to the previous time never. One single algorithm is calculated before that and you saw that why I just come in something like that it is not going to find some way I have given you a random algorithm. But there is that updating that random value what it is looking is based on my old value right. It will take that my good theta was this now I have given something which looks like closer I do not roam around around me that data and values there okay. So, that is optimized. Now the same becomes into the real world python also you cannot rely on a single source of truth right or a single point of failure what if that point fails you would have nothing okay. So, stacking does the same thing it will take an output and she boosted also one of the things which does on a similar side. So, what it does it it does in a similar way that I have one algorithm I got the output from one algorithm now that output is something goes it is not perfect but it is something goes that I put that output to the another model that this is my output like this model that is doing it. Now you tell me that how can I optimize it what not there are games some other models which is not out of it. So, generally what happens is not over the linear model then we will need to some of all this this one then please one at the very next to optimize it. So, it is one after the other that we are shooting the outputs to every another model. So, that it does not fail set one point which some like linear regression was not able to capture something then 3 will gap or if 3 is not able to capture the random for the speed gap something will be able to capture the random for the speed gap. So, this is the core algorithm now they did not just in the one thing that is working on theta based on primarily based on this one that we are having one position I know that this position is at the top now my other model is not there right this is the calculation that is that every possible with the other theta value of it will take more close to the actual right. So, yeah this was the core example anything which is so see that is what is there and one is there we are going down there and we got that we are are prediction point is but a 1 1 point 1 point 1 point 1 point 1 point 1 point 2 point 2 point 2 is getting close to 2 point right or 0 0 when we start after very slightly we try. So, this is the core I get is here in any kind of a doubt if it is not here that how the last behind the wave is like the work. Maybe I will not like this. I am not sure if I am not aware like the chip ones are teaching the team of maps or not but I am the the calculation question will come out the maps that I will be written in central open like the same thing that you will be able to just solve I will give you two three points then you solve that radio design just implement that algorithm like the area of the data parameters that I will give you the same. A very nice test and playing with you I keep in mind all the points are So, see or here the error does not find this too and then find this too. Now, here we must write where R by hat was still. So, now R by hat is by 6. And 1, 1 to be right. So, if my new Y hat is there, I have a position that right. So, if I do a minus from 0.65 to minus 2, what is the value? 1.35 right. So, it shrinks right. And then, if I do a 1.05 minus 3, that is my value of minus 1.93. So, it shrinks right. So, see negative value the bigger the file right. So, previously minus 2 was there. Now, here it is minus 1.35 right. That means, we are moving close to what 0 right. And this is minus 1.95 which is like less from minus 3. We are moving towards 0. So, it shrinks right. That is the core idea. Any doubts clear? If it is not like understandable then does have a little once even if it is not understandable there is message in Google time. I try to do the English algorithm on this. Yeah, that was about the pages like that. I think we will have this is nothing but the vector intuition. And then learning rate, you can take a small bit then we will learn it. I will read it completely and then I will ask quite so that after that we get into the other way. So, take 5 minutes definitely and then I will bring some work ahead. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you the C So, till here, clear any doubts and think, I can ask you why. So again like in the previous part for linear regression, we have like sort of with that regression, it was better, right? That was nothing but you were writing why I had alpha and I s1, I want to s2, I s2, I s2 and what if maybe we have wave numbers, wave numbers? Alright, let us have this graph here. So, if you are going to have a little scroll, then cross one, then we are going to have a little bit here. This s, p was m, and this s should be on the right. The problem on both should be magic for those that are going to have to be one, p was m. So, that is no idea that when we are combining the entire bigotry portion into one thing. So, if we split it again, we will go into that session, but we buy one to p for I thought. It does normal in rotation to write all the equations into one form. And this is the convexity, convexity is very quite this. This, so, of gradient design, the other algorithms is that we are going to have to do a little bit of gradient design, the other algorithms is that we will go into that and do a little bit of gradient design. So, in fact, it is the fendio of the two, the other algorithm that we are going to have is one base on top, so, convexity needs, convexity needs that we have a convex feature of the mouse world. So, gradient design that it is used that moving forward, you take the able to sign in that global background, there is that in high order, you will surely able to sign in that way. That is the gradient, it is by the gradient design. So, in previous there was no gradient design, when we got the global background, although we can, people of the global background do some kind of equation, but it was not related to the previous data. So, my data, I do not know what many people can handle that explanation, and that tools are not. But gradient design is a very few, I think, tools to achieve a more general algorithm, then you will surely converge the global background. So, that is what a convex function needs, that is having one point, one point, third point. So, this is what the equation design is, that is the gradient design. JVN is having a convex function, this is a lower function, if you have a wide global suitable, that is what I am going to do, the gradient design will take a, that you will go on, that is what you will do. And one other thing, if you go into the network, the same thing will be a, what my data, your assumptions are, will be non-conversed, non-conversed, there are these very, I will just show you one of the routes, that will make things easy for you. See, when I am telling about gradient design, convex function, this, right. So, we are having one global network, if we choose like, good algorithm, it is like, I know this is to global network, right. But if we go into neural network, we are having neurons, right. As far as I know, I also do not know much, but like, I can tell you what happens, okay. So, we have neurons, neurons have different different layers, for each layer, these is data, and we try to optimize that layer, right. So, basically in neural network, what happens, it is a cross function, cross function needs what, if there is some, why we are having like, 10 types of neurons connected with neural network, like this, this is layer 1, this is layer 2, if we are having some other neurons connected to it, then this is layer 3, if we are having other neurons. So, this thing research, who is cross, what happens, this, why not we go into this neuron one, if we take some output, take some output, take some output, every neuron will generate one output. Now, this output will combine to every other neuron, as a cross function, right. Now, this output will also combine to every other neuron, going forward, this will go into a cross function, right. So, what will happen is, plot the error function graph in neural network, it will look something like this, probably. Means, it might be possible for layer 1, layer 2, layer 3. So, there is no, like, prompt, complex function, which is there, it might be like, that comes, it might be possible, except, like, other one. So, this is like, very any complex, if you want to go back, neuron, it will come. So, the idea is to minimize that same thing, but neural network, a equation is not complex, that is why this is like more, it will go into a, yeah. This is, the notation of the entire, as we have seen to become, it is combined to be that x, that is the same thing, and we are having to, as we have seen to become, it is combined to be that x, that is the same thing, idea, every time, it is, it is that x, not square. Now, going into this part, it is the stored theory behind, if the idea is that, this is the early way, we have seen what I am, I want to draw back how that is, I have to achieve. So, this is a graph, which is, I just zoomed a bit, sorry. Now, you can see the graph here, which is showing the equation, and here in the, y axis is showing the most, okay. So, as we go into down the equation, okay, axis is very increasing, I guess, I will be going into the equation, you see, I will write down 2, I will be here. So, write down 2 small of the, 2 small of the, that means, my step is like 80, 80 small, 80, 80, if I go again, 80, small step at the direction of the equation, go across the equation, and I will say, I am trying to get down the, and I am taking the 80, 80, 80, and then it might take me years to get down, from there, right. So, giving a very, very small equation, you can get a set, when it tries to increase the number of, high variation, it is almost, almost, will flat, like this, like it is, it is, it is, it is over, right. But, where is it, and this point is, here, you see, it is over, right. That means, I wish, that, here is something, which is very high, as axis for number, and I will be, becoming 2 slow and 2, complex, right. If it take a lot of computational that, and to, and thus, a lot of, like, I need to go once or ever, right, not so, ever, I need to go once or ever, but, a lot of, lot of, lot of, lot of, right. So, you do not want to get, wanted to be, in a, in a, in a situation, okay, I need to hit the button, that will, you know, computation, or, first and the time, right. It is going there, and this, it will, which definitely, it will, when it is, going slow, but, definitely, definitely, in fact, if you go slow, then there is a chance that you will absolutely, in somewhere, at the global level, right. But, you want to reach the total number of, 10 years or something, that is the time, like, from the, that, it says, right. So, that, because, when, that, I know, is like very, very useful, you want to have very useful, and then, the right time, is like very, very large, right. So, if you have any and very, very large, you can start with how, and as quickly as possible, you started from the bottom, and people are very large, right. And then, it started to rise, right. So, that means that, we, gradually, the total, you know, the, you know, something there, which is not there. And, these have asked it, like, we can, away, and then, are, the function, and, you know, right. So, that is what I am about, in the hand, the large steps. Okay. So, large steps, what it will do in, in this graph format, it will, oscillate like this. For example, if this is, this is the graph, if I am trying to, I think my pen died. So, for example, if I am trying to go from this point, let us say from, you know, it is working. So, from this point, to the global environment. Okay. So, what will happen, it will go from here, right. If I take a very large step, it will somewhere land here. Okay. Then, if I take a large step, it might be possible that we cross this and land here. So, again, instead of landing here at the global minimum, we landed at some point, which is close to global level, but it is not a global level, but here, I think it is, right. So, what the iteration will look like, it will be looking like if you took excessively large steps, then, it will be like this, then coming back this, then coming back this, this, this, this. So, iteration will oscillate between the two lines, right. That is another scenario that you don't want to get it to, right. So, the optimal thing is the green graph, which is shown here. Yeah. This green graph, which is shown here, this is the right side. So, it is, so, by the design, it is like that green graph is just a replica, but it is not, but having a vector, learning, with a little bit of a large step, from the global one. So, it is possible that there is a global, even more , right? So, read, big bucks, this is certainly a big piece of work, which is ada cantum and i transmitted them in terms of with the value delta campus, quickly I happen that I am collecting for any data across to field. In this case, mobile load, 15 percent of those data are the engineeraling there But the biggest thing is that it does too also be generally in self-relations about 0.1, one may be 0.0, 5 to 2, 0.1. That is the algorithm that you want to do. We don't put that for it to its time, 5. So, these are the huge numbers. So, by the end of 5, the means that you are putting time that say, loss comes in 5 times, then that is the data which is the data. That's all we have at the end of 5 times that is the huge chunk. So, we don't want to do. So, if my alpha rate is called to 1, then what was my rated is a gyNT, which was gyNT, you got to reach the global number for sure, that was the gyNT. And the another thing, what was this? This graph was called as loss of it. So, loss of it is my daily, what is loss of it? This is the loss of the gyNT. We have to order it to the risk of higher risk. That is the risk of higher risk. That is the risk of higher risk. So, that is loss of it. So, if you want to check the nature of the radiation, we have to follow the loss. When we have to see the loss, for example, little loss rises. Then I can see it is like a diagram. I have to see it. It is like, it is going to slide. You reach the bottom, but at the table, there is a lot of time, so that is where it goes. And the loss, that is the real one, was telling you that the loss of it is lost. The loss of it is ultimately that, however, I am not used to it. So, let us see your look for alpha rate. You have the right loss, you have to see the loss. So, now you try to draw this loss. You will be seeing the graph, which is expected to loss in high risk. That is the graph, if you do get 2 high in the red part, then you go like, okay, that is the 2 high, I will have good result. If it is too low, it will be half a constant, and it is good, then it will get some other real line. Then what is this graph? You are going to be ready to do it, and start, start, and shrink over there. Okay, so this is what is going to be. This is one methodology, like it is huge. So, by the time that I know that, I am going to have the kind of issues, then I think it is one 10 steps. Okay, so 10 steps is there, and I want to reach the global level. Right, then what is the, and if my loss comes from the same level, then I will try to get both the best of the both points. Right, so what it will do, I will take some, to do the other steps, that are going to be, then I will get, as little as I go, near the global level, but I will try to learn the very big things. So, I will try to learn it right, so I will put my line up, as 0.1, for the first five steps, and I will put, as 0.05, for the next five steps, I will be able to do it. So, I will be able to do my half five steps. You know, do, I will try to learn that five, and then I will try to get around these data, and I will proceed. So, these are the data, but these will be, and I will mostly be used to do the data, because the data need function is not one point. So, we have to use some, something about the, with the buying of this function to make a guy go around it. Just keep in mind that, if someone asks that is, again, this ended the end goal, yes it did the end goal. Like, not end goal, but it is the end function, which is, one, holistic function, which is going forward to use, the holistic idea is this one. But, in deep learning, it is not being used just in all the different functions, and not one, basically the cross-joint function, you might see. So, every day, as I give it, it's going to make a plan. So, at that point, the core idea is, but we optimize something about it. But, we want it, all this one, in a core idea, that should be, even if we are going to be, and I will not just be, a lot of it, not the entire, your issue is, right. And, this one, one, intuition on this. Then, what types of gradients does it work with? Right, to meet the end goal, gradients, and now, we will see the gradients of the gradients. Okay. Let me see, and what is the gradients of these gradients, and needs? Right? So, the first one is the batch cheating. What does batch cheating mean? You can see that, okay, so by the end point, we have, and, and what's more, the number of samples, by the way, okay. So, understand this, if I tell you that I have one million samples, that means I am having one million rows at 10, right? I have two. Let's see, I have one million rows, and I am, I am ready by the bottom. So, even if I do not, rate the system, with the 20, 20, 20 is separated, it is there. So, 80 percent of one million rows is for how much? Why take million rows? Simple. So, why take million rows is still too large? Right. Then, the end values are very large, right. If I use the entire end value, as a batch, that is like, whole end, end of point A, right? Then, that is, that will be very good. Of that, it is slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, speed, that. Super slow, right. The example is this only, for each and every iteration, for determining the, again, recent the alpha value of the theta value would go over and, the result to all the, one, sorry, 0.8 million rows and then it will determine. Right. What is what, like, what it was doing, because we like x1, x2, x3, x4, x3, theta, x2, x3, x3, everything was there. So, point A to million, then it was calculating my new theta value based on that. So, every time it will go in, it is like, those point A to million rows, calculate the new theta on top of it, then refresh my old theta by subtracting, the cost function based on all those point A to million. So, it is like, too large to go over. So, that is, that is what the batch GD was there. But it is like, too good also. Like, it will go over and represent that theta by 1, because it is smooth, but it is going to be, the end of computation, and I require to get you the normal thing, as, as, as, simply, for a vertical rule of the day. Right. Then we have to work on, so, that's the gradient. So, this is what, one set of the gradient. So, I have, like, one minute set of the, like, two one set of the, like, the, like, the gradient. So, this is the gradient, that is, one set of the, and over the, how many you do. By the way, that's also like, that is, that one set of the gradient, okay. Like, it might have gone, say that, everything is very, very good, like, and I might end up like, taking a, how many minutes, the, at least, it's like, four times, that is, you know, and you know, you take it from, like, one set of the, like, three, very, very, very, very, very far, very far, very far, very much, but, you know, you can move from, like, at, at. You can move from, like, or, or, or, or, and then, again, we have to be knocked down, and we have to be, like, but, basically, this one will be three times. That, that's a proper human tendency, because we either do it one thing at a very extreme, then we want to go and test the, very bottom level and then we land something in the middle, right. So, XT1 is the first which is the bad GD, it gets the entire parameters, we think that okay, it is going like 2 slow, then we saw that okay, let us remove that, we give 1 at a time. Now this is something which is like very much we are not getting a good SIA problem. Now we try to do any bad GD, means that we need work, we are having 1 or 2 different areas, we do not get to 3, that is a bit 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, 801, now out of point 80, we need those, that is why we write it all of the point 80, we need those two side patch, right, let us say point 80, but is silent, means that point 80, point 80, point 20, what are we like with 0.1, we need those, we want to reduce, we are not getting any bad items or create bad items, how are we? Then by the way we need to get that bad size, then we calculate the parameters, that patch and then with the calculated parameters So, what they have? It will be not be based on one simple type of a rather important based on the type of dataset, so it will be some type of a data pool, and then the ideas of the data sets and it will be in a situation that we have. So, this thing is like one batch is there, another batch is there, they are standard of basic, they are two, like first time, go into the picture, we have one alpha, then we will have a critical effect, so when you do not have a critical effect, then the other value will be long, okay. So, this thing is like one batch is there, another batch is there, they are standard of a data, then the other value will be long, okay, they are standard of that, other value will not be standard of that, whatever the parameter alpha, sorry the factor theta is there, which is making like 4 sets in like a screen table, because only for the cover data, that will be children, the best outcome of those all those classes. So, what happens? I will take a three-point test, three-point technique, that is what you are testing, that is the technique of one, but this thing will be all the classes, that will fall, but one at a time, okay. So, whatever the data is, that should be in the prediction, 90% of the data that you already have, this batch is maybe like two sets, if my test is needed, then this is what the analysis method will be, okay. So, I did not be able to, some of the time, I will take a batch one, I will take like, let us just 50 rows of that, five lines of maintenance, okay. And the other 20 rows of therefore, this thing, right, first class went in, we got some of them, right. The theta line, I will take the theta line, second class went in, got some of the line, third class, the maintenance, what is the other line? The wish line is closer to the remaining 20 rows, that is the 25, the line finalizes what the more we get, because that 20 rows we haven't seen, that model is never seen, so whatever is made sense to that, everything that is straight on as it is, but not at once, one after the end, right, compare, compare, compare, the minimum one is not to be the same, time. So, that is the wrong batch, right. It is true, what is it? Now, after that, this is, this is the many batch pages, nothing but the high-end pages, okay. We are making the most of them, the less of the improvements, so we need to move on to our addition to the beginning to very high level, and we don't have, we move on to our addition to the beginning to very low level, that is what our main class TV is, and one thing, like we usually saw in the previous class that there were three parts of the screen time, it is not about that, our class is amazing, the improvements are going on. So, the first part, the first part, the first part, is that we are the first part, right, we have to be back, keep going on to the combination of those two, we are the first class we need, what is the, right. Now, because, so, the last thing we need to do, is to move on to the right, and then we are taking on the right, or right, you move on to the right, by example, you follow our right, right, the last side, right, when you take on the right, so the last thing is, right, you are making a clear way that it is, especially that you are not doing. Like this video, right, this is slow, this is state of, right. So, by now, the video is slow, we operate this approach, and move it slow, after that, that I see, that screen area of lower level, and everything, believe that, block that, right. Does that mean, it makes sense in computer, if I can reach the last lecture, and before the TV in the last lecture, my combination of topics are going, skyrocketing, then there is no point of being at loss, right. I have to spend more time on the combination of equity. So, if we consider any of them higher, that it means that we are having a certain situation that is not really a combination of intensity. This thing is very much better, because the one and the right one, is very much better than any, we are not really good at this thing, but by two rules, that we tend to, the combination of each other, is not all that, right. If we are not really, we are not really, we are not really, we are not really, we are not really, we are not really, we are not really, we are not actually, we are not really, we are not perfectly good at this, we are lacking comments, we are not really ok at this, we are not really, we are not asking do we only have Apollo boxes that are tied them up, is that not you? Yes, I don't know? How have you seen Shadow New York before? How have theyyou? Have you seen how much convolutional So that is what the GPU does. If you see a cloud GPU, that would have run any algorithm for very slow process. See that the kernel algorithm is going to run more like a risky algorithm. So that GPU tells you a safe way. See if you bend some running again and again and again and again. Par by par by par to try to create it. But GPU machine what you do? It stands and it tries to use those of create the burst and it will just land like a perfect spot at once. Right? But for that, the amount of virus which were connected to that machine, the amount of electricity that machine was getting. That was the chance. Right? So if you want to go ahead with some good amount of pressure power, I think that you have to make sure that you have to do something. You have to make it work. You have to go ahead with the very little bit of the risk of getting it out of the compromise. That would be a practical increase. Right? You want to do a slow process. Then the amount of pressure and you think you want to go to the point where you have a par at a time, because it is an answer, it is an answer, it is an answer. And you have to go ahead. So maybe that is something which is light on the hardware side of us. Okay? Anything that is specific for you? Yeah. No, no, no. You are ready for it. So I have to look at having 10 features. Okay? And here, so, features are what? For us. It is an answer, it is an answer. Right? That's how many things you have had 1000 rules. Right? So I am taking 1,000 rules which is how all the different features come. And the library, what is the only part? What is the only part? What is the only part? Let me come to you in the state. I will come to you in the future. So great thing. What? I got you. What you are asking on this point? So let's see if, see, this is the case. Okay. It is getting tired, but what I am trying to say is like, for example, these exercise are the problems, their features. And it is going to come up to how many rules. So I am not dividing this much. That I have to get some extra. You are going to get all of them. No. I am dividing. How many? I take like, how many rules I take? 2000 rules with all the features. So my model is see all the features. So you are thinking, but less number of data to that. Okay? Then again, 2000 rules, less number of data. Again, 2000 rules, less number of data. Ultimately, my model is see all the information goes by. 2000 right time. Okay? So for each iteration, it is not a problem. It is a problem. Okay. If I see like, the first iteration of the idea, it is fine. See, randomness is out. So for example, if I am running a model, right? I will say, I move that, there is a demand form. I can't think that I want data like, can we see rules? Really, that's something. I give you some number of data, I give you some number of data. I give you a signal. So they have the demand. So you have the amount of data that is found like, I want the high-quality of data. But you should try. Right? Then what they have, if I want to run for some classes, I give that hand, giving something around 24-85%. I don't want the other one like one. I say my operation, which was up to that already required a small. Right? So in that case, if you run a group of classes, so we can say, I will say, score, 30-35% in both, over here and then then then, two, two, three, more data, which are the data that you are going to run from, the model. So out of them common rules, the data that you receive by a new asset of the model, that means you don't need a data that you see, so far, because there's three classes already there, but you don't rely on, you say, there are a lot of additional cost classes. Don't be formed in a data that you are lacking. For the data, you can do that. Then two, we will take that one extra step of each other, and the teacher, the student, the student, and the student, they are eliminated. They are divided by all the students, but they will just take a short break. So, that is, one thousand data, then we will use two to thirty thousand rules, we will see three thousand rules as we have it. So, that in one, four, is not ready to be in operation already. That is the idea. So, I think this is it. Regularization is coming after, which session is that? I think after this, we have law certification, then we have a biosphere instead of, after that we have regularization. So, regularization is coming for data descendant. This is the idea. So, the data descendant, the data descendant, the data descendant, the data descendant, the data descendant, which will help us understand how we can optimize more of this, right, in that session, we get to know. And this one thing, it is not test-productive, it is a business idea, then biosphere is taking on a new one, a new one, a new one, a new feature is taking there. So, if you go into features in, every feature we have, certainly, one thing is having a new feature, but some, some, a value to be added, value to power it. So, other, we can have a value to be added, so I think that the other features, it has some other, a value to be added. So, in that case, my oxidation will be okay, right, from one front to the other, or it will go and chop. One feature is, saving it, I have very, very fun feature, I think it is very, I think I have to power it, right, okay, great value. So, the feature is very, very, very fine, fine, fine, it is more than, okay, because the great value is, it is more than, very, very good value. Then, it will be even popular. Now, feature importance, what is feature, it seems like, at京, very kicking. So, that, forget everything. Every column, flみ, the mean wave at the bottom. So, you have to try that as well. Like, a decrease in height. You start the change. So, once my entire system is multiplied by 1,000 to the top, then again by T divided by 2, it might be quite high, it will come down. Then again 500 again more. So, that is why my future has escaped properly in a certain time. Then for how people stop, it will go in a slow motion and for more just to go back. That is one of the equation. So, on a stage very long thing that is exact kind of, and a stage is like a round bow, and then it will be gradient to the point, I must. So, yeah, that was the future scaling part. Then also I have attached the other sides to the fold line, I have to do this, other do not do such thing like that. Just have a run for that first one or two sets to see the max of the algorithm. Nothing that, the max, the algorithm, you have to solve the class with a jump, okay? Now, this is the one question. I said the learning rate to I saw, I saw this first two sets, then what will happen? It is a high learning rate, that my graph will definitely or see it, see. Like if I want to go into the convergence and I am like, in the lady taking the largest set, it might be possible that I pass the global limit, what like again on the top of the net. So, that is one thing, don't put it and it will not add to 2 high, so that it passes the global limit. Keep it at a, same, like lower level. Now, I share that more, look with you, that thing, but this is the last, in the video, we were just writing it, like that's it, I mean, see, this question is, the one that is, quite of a complete length, what happens is, it first has to be my answer, it is important, to see that being one person, I think that if I go slower, I take a more common look at that, I can understand, I can understand, I just need to go on, then, then we will be thinking, like, okay, if the function is not from the rest then, that is deeper, okay? I'll function non-conplexing deeper, so I'll function on selects, like the blue, I'll select, down, up, down, up, something like that. So, in that case, we are going to be learning, then we are going to modification of our correct variable, the same, knowledge is seen, but it will get more time. That is one, one of the bad complexities of good news, there, right, but complexity is a good news, right? If the function itself is not conscious, then we try to some problem, problem, right? The virus is given speed of the virus, similar, similar line, so we have an idea that, our value will not jump, like, it's multi-guided, it will not jump suddenly, it can not come out, it's not something like, it can't see anything. How do I know some bad learning? Loser, okay? If my looser is going, this is my, why exist? This is my access, right? This is my looser, this is my addition. By moving, by increasing the addition, if my looser is not getting down, it is going up, there is a bad else on, it is really slowing down, really constant in the algorithm system that needs very little speed, which should be a headache of lots on the graph, very, like, initially, you would say, that should be the loss of the, loss of the, my looser, if you got the loss of, you could do it, but it's fine. Really nice, it's not as good, why is there a little bit here, it's not that? There is pain on the anger sign in the video, a bit root on my guess sign on, data, or is it possible to get a new, minus, alpha, delta, or j-kinda? So, minus delta, k-kinda was what? That, yeah, set, right? So, we are having our code, data, and now, we are calculated, the new data, right? To minus, not all the data, right? So, something else is that in there, and repeating that step to get out, no step. That is the whole idea of that, my aside, you are moving opposite. So, yeah, that was pretty much it, and next step, by Slevins and Pauli, we have a new data, right? So, for the new data, we have nothing but one data, from that data, right? And by Slevins, I think by Slevins, the important topic as per my answer, you, most, because they try to, trick you there, and there are two three terms, that you will get, maybe, confused with, what is by S, what is variance, how to get into. So, for example, if someone of you have read a book, and you heard about the NAR technology, no, not that many. So, NAR and only the famous example of by Slevins, the most, what I can say, the most beautiful example to understand exactly what bias and variance, somehow they are in the market. Because, if you go into the interviews, I think, this is one of the topic that they are definitely, definitely, definitely, to come to you. Definitely, they are last. And like, once you get down the logic, also, super easy topic, you just try to confuse that you have as well. So, just like, get an idea on the bias, we can fully know that after that, I think it is regularization and then, notice the segregation of the, fine, from session nine, we are having the Indian and the Soviet Union. Okay, that works. Any doubt will get, in the next class, we start by six. Nothing? At NMC, we already shared with you. I think it is not having the access, right? So, I will give you the access.