you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you So, we will try to keep the class little shorter today. However, if I forget about it, so please remind me at 520 or 550. So, class is to 5. So, then you can remind me at around 430 or 4, around 430. Okay. So, in the last class, we saw water different layers which power the internet, the networking layer. So, we saw two different type of models. That is a several layer OSI model. There is a five layer TCP IP model. Are these two the only models that exist? The answer is no. Various different people, various different engineers, various different research institutes have defined different types of models. So, there are a number of models. If you simply read the Wikipedia page of networking layers, you will see that there are multiple different types of models that exist. However, in practice, these are the two important models. OSI model because it is, we can say a standardization which came into picture for the very first time. And then TCP IP because that is where the internet got started. So, TCP IP, TCP was the first data transfer protocol that was created which was reliable. And that IP address is something that is used in all type of models. So, in practice, TCP IP is what we generally use. However, we still use the layer numbers of the OSI model in the conversation. For example, if you are talking about the application layer, you will not call it layer 5, you will call it layer 7. Even while using TCP IP model, you will say that 7 to 5 is one layer. Okay. So, we also saw that network, the internet as a whole can be categorized into two different layers. There is one layer where we have the devices. So, you have your phone, you have your laptop, you have different type of servers which are connected to some kind of device, which is connecting them to the external network. So, inside your home, you are going to have multiple devices. Inside this campus, inside this classroom, we have so many devices. We have a lot of laptops, we have a lot of smartphones, we have a lot of smart watches. All of them are connected to the internet by a certain device. And then these devices, they are going to connect you to probably your ISP's network. Right. So, whatever ISP, we are heading right now, which is serving as the internet. You first get connected to their network and then they connect you to the larger deeper internet. Where other different IT's are also connected to each other. So, this is one IP, this is one internet service provider, right. Same service provider might be providing internet to other different locations, to other different customers as well. Similarly, there are going to be other service providers. And all of them are able to communicate to each other, which means all of them are also interconnected. So, why you are not directly connected with a different service provider's host, but you are connected to them through this deeper internet network. So, there is a very dense network of routers, which are powering this internet, which are powering this communication between multiple different types of ISPs. So, you can say that these devices are the edge devices, because they are present at the edge of this entire network that we have. Majority of the devices in this network are routers. Majority of the nodes here are routers. And the data is being transferred through these routers, that is why they are called routers because they are routed these package. And the edges, you have the host devices, right. We discussed that there are two types of hosts that exist. There is a client that is going to request for something and there is a server that is going to serve the resource. So, this laptop can be a client and probably this can be a server or the server probably might be sitting on different side of the internet. Is that what it says? Now, whenever two servers or two hosts are communicating with each other through the internet, since in the end, the signals are going to be transferred as electrical signals. It is likely that there is going to be some damping effect in the signal. The signal is going to decay. So, suppose you have to transfer some data from here to US. In the end, it is going to be an electrical signal. So, there has to be some wiring, right. So, there are wires under the sea which carry this weight of internet. But if you are carrying the data through those wires, since it is electrical signal, there is going to be a decay in the signal. So, we need to place certain devices to keep regenerating the signals. To ensure that there is no decay in this signal. These devices are called repeaters. So, if you have, if you are sending a signal from here, it is possible that this signal decays. But a repeater is going to regenerate it is going to ensure that a signal of sufficient strength is regenerated again. And this other device receives a signal which is readable, which is that. Is that makes sense? Now, in your internet, which means in smaller networks. So, internet as we said is a network of different networks. Inside a network, when multiple devices are connected to each other, we have certain type of equipments which power this type of network. So, here this is a router because it is connecting you directly to the internet. But in reality, you are not directly going to get connected with a router. In reality, there are multiple different type of devices that exist. So, there is a device called hub. Have you guys heard about this? What is a hub? Hub is nothing but a device that is going to simply broadcast your signal, which means that if let us say in your network, there are four systems that are connected. This is not internet. This is a small network. Once it gets connected with a router with the external, deeper network, then it will become part of the internet. Right now, it is just a small network on its own. So, you have let us say these four devices, four laptops. And they are connected to each other using this hub. What this hub is going to do is that if you are passing any data packet, there is anything that you send to this hub. That is simply going to be broadcasted to all the devices that are connected to this hub. So, inside an internet, if you have to do a broadcasting bag of things, which is a requirement in a lot of cases, we will see when we study routing. So, in that case, a hub is going to be a very useful device. It is also kind of a little bit of a reason to be single, while it redirects it, while it broadcasts it to other devices. But the hub is going to be a dumb device. Dumb device means it does not know where exactly your packet has to be sent. It is possible that this packet was meant to be sent only to this device. You only wanted to communicate with this device. But if you are using a hub in between, this packet is going to go to all devices. What are the risks of having this type of device? Data security. Data is going to other devices, even if you do not want that to happen. What else? Performance loss. Performance loss, why? Correct. We are occupying this bandwidth, right? Currently, you are using this line, you are transferring this data here, this data, even if it is not needed. So, if there is some data that has to be sent from this device or this device, that will have to wait because there is already a congestion in this line. So, why a hub is a good device for broadcasting this signal and for some specific use cases, it is not the device that can solve a routing problem. So, for that, we have a slightly intelligent device called switch. What a switch is going to do is switch keeps the track of the device IDs, their MAC addresses. So, switch knows exactly which is the device that is supposed to receive this signal, which is the device that is not supposed to receive this signal. So, if that is a system, wants to communicate with this system, the data will only be sent to that specific system. It will not be broadcasted to all these systems. Does that make sense? That is it, that is all what are switched is. What is a router? In your rooms, do you have routers or do you have switches or do you have modern? Have you heard names of all the devices? Yes. Do you know the differences or do you use all of them interchangeably? Sometimes you call it a modern, sometimes you call it a router. When there is some issue, you steal a big deal, the smart K person, then suddenly we are calling it a switch. What exactly is that device? It transforms? Correct, that is correct. What is that device? Is that a herb? Is that a switch? Is that a router or is that a modern? It is a router, which is also going to act as a switch. It is a router which comes with inbuilt switch functionality as well. And sometimes it is a modern as well, router and modern are not the same thing. They both serve different purposes. This device will have a device which is a router which has its own built-in modern as well. So what does a router do? Router is going to connect you with the outer internet, with the outer network. So this and this in both of these scenarios are only talking about an intranet, a small individual network. But if you want to send some data from here to a computer which is not part of this network. So if you want to send a switch or a herb or a generator, a generic generator is not going to help you. You need an intelligent device that understands IP addresses. Because you can only communicate the only, you can say address of the device that you have where the data is to be transferred is the IP address. So switches or hubs they don't understand IP address. They don't know how to parse the IP address. They don't know how to make sense out of those numbers that are present in the IP address. So for that we have this device called the router. Router is going to understand IP addresses. And now router can then be connected to a switch which let's say has, you can have multiple different switches and you can have one single router responsible for connecting all of them to the external internet. You can have this type of a setup or you can have one single switch or you can have the switch as a built-in functionality of the router itself. So modern rate routers are serving as switches as well. You don't really need a separate switch in your course. But router is the device that is going to connect you to the internet because router is something that understands the IP address. So whenever a communication has to take place, so suppose you want to open Amazon.com. You need to connect with Amazon server. Amazon server has some IP address. Let's say the IP addresses 10.2.58.4. And you are going to have your own IP address. Let's say your IP address is 192.168.3.70. Okay. Here is your IP address. What exactly is your IP address that you are able to see right now? You know how to check your IP address? How do you do that? You can use IP config. That's a command that you can run in the terminal which will show you all the detail. Or you can simply go to your Wi-Fi settings. And then you can open the Wi-Fi you are connected with. And then on the left side you will be able to see certain options. Maybe you have an option of IP address and you will show you the IP address as well. What is the IP address that you see? 192. 192.168. Now whenever you get connected to a different network you will be assigned a different IP address. Right? So that means that if you go to your hostel you should be assigned a different IP address. Which idea you should be completely different. It could be something like this or it could start. So we all understand what exactly is an IP address. And we say IP address we are talking about IPv4 right. This is the IP address protocol that we use which is a 32 bit long number which is represented as 48 bit long numbers. So we are going to have 4 parts which are separated by a dot. In your case you are able to see 192.168 something in this. And this is the IP address is assigned to you by your network. Whoever is your network provider they are going to assign you an IP. They have a pool of IP addresses that they can assign to their clients or their hosts. So you are assigned one of these IP addresses. Now currently you might be connected with the institute's network. You will go to your hostel your router is going to change your ISP is going to change. Or you can probably create your own hotspot using your phone. In that case your ISP may change or you may go to your hometown you may use your home's Wi-Fi. Then again your network your location everything is going to change. So the IP address should change right. But every single time you will see that your IP address starts from 192.168. What could be the reason? It is a 8 bit long number. How many numbers can we represent using 8 bits? You have 8 bits here 8 bits here. So how many unique numbers can we represent using 8 bits? How? Two power? 8 bits. Every bit can take 0 or 1. So every bit has two possibilities. We have 8 such possibilities which means 2 power 8 which is what? 256. And what is the range from which number to which number? 0 to 255 right. These are all the possible values. So there are 256 possibilities but every single time whenever you get connected with a Wi-Fi and you check your IP address you will always be able to see 192.168. You can connect your phone with the Wi-Fi you can check the IP address it will show you 192.168. What do you think would be a reason? Even if you change the network even if you change your geographical location you can go to your hometown you can try this out you will still see 192.168. You can so you are from Bihar right? Go to your hometown the router reason is going to change. So we will still find these similar IP address 192.168. So basically if we move smaller locations from here to there so maybe it does not change. So I would say that is in the correct line you are thinking in the right direction but the answer is not correct. We will soon find out why do you always see 192.168? So is everyone first of all clear with what is a switch? How is a dumb device? Is this simply going to broadcast the packet? Switch knows the devices that are connected switch knows what is the destination device. However both of them are only going to work inside a small network they are not going to be connected with the internet. For that you need a device that understands IP addresses. It understands how to pass the IP addresses and that can use the structure of IP address for routing the patterns. Which means that IP addresses are having a structure. These are not just random numbers. When you get connected with an internet it is not like when you get a random 8 bit number which becomes your IP address. There is a process through which an IP address is assigned to your machine and that IP address helps in routing, helps optimize it around you. So before that let us first understand how exactly the router is going to work or from where exactly do you get these IP addresses? So you are being assigned the site address by your ISP. But the ISP needs to get a list of IP addresses otherwise different ISPs are going to assign same IP addresses to different computers. Is it possible that there are two different computers both having the exact same IP addresses? Is it possible? Should be unique. But in the last class we discussed that the world's population is somewhere around 8 billion and around 60% or 50% are going to have internet connectivity with two devices on an average. So how many devices are we going to have that are connected with the internet? How many devices are connected with internet? 8 to 10 billion. If you are considering or an average two devices per user and how many IP addresses can be connected with the internet? So we are saying that maximum number of possibilities that are there are two is to power 32. Which if you remember in the last class we approximated this. We said that this can be considered equivalent to this and then two is to power 10 is very close to 10 is to power 3. So we did that approximation and we had a number of 1 billion. But if you calculate the exact number as well two is to power 32 will be somewhere around 4.3 billion. So even if you do the precise calculation not just go with the order of magnitude then also you will see that there is a very big difference. So can we have unique IP addresses for ease and every device? The answer is no. We cannot help. And that is the reason why now there is a different protocol which is IPv6. However, is it fully functional? So you can assume that this is a new software that we are trying to deploy but all the hardwares are not compatible with it. All the applications are not compatible with it. So for this to be deployed with a 100 percent extra it is going to take a long time. Right now your devices are using both the IP addresses and your operating system decides using the knowledge of which application you are using or the type of connections that you are creating. The operating system decides which IP address it should be using. However, if you consider this since all the hardwares are not compatible with it. All applications are not compatible with IPv6 right now. So IPv4 and you can see your IP address that you are able to see there is a IPv4 IP address right because you are able to see this structure of 48 bit numbers there. If it is a IPv6 IP address then you will see strings separated by colon. This is the structure of IPv6 IP address. We will talk about it in the next class by the way. So there is a huge difference in the total number of IP addresses that can be generated versus the number of devices that exist which means by the pigeonhole principle. All of you understand what is pigeonhole principle? So it is guaranteed that there are going to be devices which will have same IP address. So how do the routers then know which device they should be forward in the packet tool? If there is a different device having this IP address, how do we know that this is the Amazon server or that different device is the Amazon server? The only way of communicating with the servers is the IP address because the only thing network understands and IP addresses are not going to be unique. So how does this communication work? How do you know what is the MAC address of the server where Amazon is code is running? They won't even expose it to anyone. MAC address is something which probably a switch might be available but switch is part of their internal network. We are not exposed to that switch. We are not exposed to the internal software servers. Switch would be connected to a router but switch cannot send the router does not understand MAC address. Now to the last class, let's the abstraction we talked about in the last class. Every layer understands specificity. All the layers do not understand each enemy. So how does this communication work? So that is the correct idea I would say. IP addresses are supposed to be hierarchical in nature. Have you seen or used any hierarchical data structure? So how does a tree function? Suppose you have a binary tree. How do you search in a binary tree or probably a much more intelligent version of tree? So let's consider a binary search tree. How do you search in a binary search tree? So you have to search in a binary search tree. Based on the number you are going to go either left based on the value right. So you are going to have a target. You will see that if the value of the target is smaller than this value, then you know that you have to move towards right. That means you are going to discard this half of the search. If the value is larger than you are going to move towards this side, this is a hierarchy. Every node you are going to take a decision and as the result of the decision, you are going to discard some part of your search space. IP addresses work in the exact same way. ISPs are going to get list of IP addresses or range of IP addresses that they can allocate from authorized registries. These registries get these IP addresses from an organization called IANA, which is the single source of proof of all the IP addresses that exist. Internet assigned numbers authority. This is the organization that maintains all the IP addresses. This is the organization which is the single source of proof of all IP addresses. And this is what is responsible for assigning ranges of IP addresses to different type of ISPs and we then take those IP addresses from the ISPs by getting their connection. So they have limited number of IP addresses. However, they have created certain rules that this range of IP addresses is dedicated for this specific range is dedicated for this type. This is the range that we are going to allocate to. Let's say all the consumer facing ISPs. This is the range that we are going to dedicate to static IPs which are not going to change even if you change the network. So there are certain rules. We don't need to learn those rules. We don't need to dive deeper into these rules. What we need to learn is how exactly the packets for this routing and logarithm understand where exactly it has to send the packets. Because if two different servers can have two different clients can have same IP address and it's no longer unique. So what is going to happen is that there are two different type of IP addresses that your machine has. If you again, then the IP config command, you will see that there are two IP addresses that are appearing there. One of them is this which is your local IP address. This is not your global IP address. This is not what is exposed to the outer world. The other IP, you can simply Google my IP address. If you do that, then you will get connected with a server. Whichever website you open, you will get connected with the server. They will return your IP address and it will be printed in that HTML page. You can simply do that right now. You can check, are you getting the same IP address that you are able to see in the if config desert or in your Wi-Fi setting? These are going to be two different addresses. And all of you are going to get the same IP address when you Google it. Because all of you are connected with the same network. However, inside this network, since there are different hosts, all of them have been assigned a different IP address and that IP address will always start from one by two, one, six seven. This range is reserved for home IP addresses or smaller network. If you increase the size of the network, the range will change. If you reduce the size of the network, the range will change. For this size of the network, this is the range which has been allocated. And this is a local IP address. Amazon server has no idea that the request is coming from this server. Amazon server only understands the IP address which you are able to see when you Google it. What is the IP address that you are able to see? 14.194.194.194. This is the IP address of the router that is connecting you to the router. So when you are opening Amazon.com, you are raising a request. So first, if there is a switch, in all these, the router itself is going to be the switch. So this request goes to the switch. Then this request sees what is the destination IP address? Because when you are opening Amazon.com, you are raising a HTTP request. HTTP request is going to have all the HTTP header parameters, which is the part of the application layer. So when you are going to add the, what is the next step? You are going to add the segmented out, you are going to add the whole address. Then you add the destination IP address and the source IP address. So source IP address right now is this. Destination IP address is this. The IP address of the Amazon server. When it reaches your router in the next layer, the networking layer, it is going to do some manipulation. It's going to then keep a local record of this IP address and the port that you might have given and the destination IP address and port. It's going to create a mapping of that and it is going to recent a request with its own IP address. It is going to add as a proxy here. So all of these devices are hidden behind this layer. The outside world is going to always see one single IP and that is the reason why if all of you let's say open lead code at the same time, you can try that now as well. You will see that it says too many requests and you won't be able to make submissions. Because lead code server does not know that all of you are different individuals. All of you are opening it in different machines. Lead code server sees that there is one single IP address which is making too many requests at the same time. So this is highly likely that it's an attack. This is not something that can be done by one single individual. This is an attack so I need to do some rate limiting. I need to block these requests. Otherwise they may take down myself. Correct, absolutely. So rate limiting is something which is an application layer thing. It's not a physical layer thing or a detailing layer thing which means that whenever you are building your application, you can implement rate limiting on your own. So during our exams we already know that we are going to experience these many requests at the same time from the same IP. So we have said different parameters for rate limiting. So you are not aware. Earlier it used to happen. Then we had to configure it. And especially during coding contests. In an exams, the speed with which people are solving the question that's going to be different depending on the type of exam that you are doing. But if it is a coding contest where like say 100,000 users are taking part. And a lot of colleges are going to organize that contest. If it is a pain India contest, we are going to have a lot of submissions from specific college campuses from college hospitals or from college premises. So in that case, it is expected that we are going to get a lot of requests from the same IP address. So we will configure the rate limiting that. However, in the actual course, we will also study how rate limiting works. So does this concept makes sense to all of you? So there are two IP addresses. One is a local IP address which is only relevant inside this network. And one is a global IP address which is something that is understood by the external world. And whenever you are raising a request, then this router is going to manipulate it at its level. I is going to change the source IP to its own IP. So the IP which has been allocated to this network. And then this request goes here. This server does not understand your local IP. This server only understands this. It is going to send the response back to the router. When the response comes to the router, since router has saved that mapping, the router knows to which device it has to forward these packets. So then the router is going to route these packets toward the appropriate device. Is that clear? Yes or no? Yes or no? Okay. Now, another interesting thing about the IP address. So before that, the, as I said that the IP address works in a hierarchical way. So if let us say this is a real-time network, it is possible that a real-time network has been allocated 14 point something dot something dot something. This is the range that has been allocated to a real-time network. So now, a real-time itself is going to do a geographical division. They may say that okay, in the north India side, we are going to have 14 dot 40 or 14 dot from 10 to 30. This becomes the range of north India region and then we have from 30 to let us say 60. This becomes the range of the south Indian region. And then inside is there are going to be more divisions. The divisions can be based on the region that divisions can be based on. The routers or their data centers. So it is going to be a hierarchical image. The moment you see 14, you know that it is this specific network. So you don't need to do a complete IP match every time. You're going to do a prefix match. You're going to match the longest prefix. So router is always going to perform a prefix match and then in that prefix match, whatever is the best output, it is going to redirect the packets towards that specific code. So in this case, let us say the destination IP address was 14 dot 15 dot 60 dot 30. So here they are checking that 14 matches like there are going to be other. Will come to them. So there are going to other different ISPs having different ranges. So the first thing that is going to be checked here is what is the best prefix match that we are getting. The best prefix match that we get is 14 dot something. After that, it's not matching, but we at least match 14. So we forward the packet towards this direction. Then from here, we can either go towards this or this direction. So now since it is 15, we are going to move towards this direction because it fits in this way. So this is how your IP is going to help in the routing. How exactly the routing happens? There are certain algorithms that are going to come into picture. There are certain data structures that will come into picture. That will study in the routing class. But right now, these IPs, these IP addresses, either this or this, they are not permanent. IPs are going to be dynamic image. Dynamic IP means. Right now, you are having some IP. It's possible that if you restart your system, you will be assigned a different time. You might be assigned, you might not be assigned. Depending on which IPs are available at that time. So every device is going to maintain a pool of IP addresses. And it is going to assign you some IP address from the available pool. And time to time is IP, these ISPs are also going to refresh this pool for security reasons. There has to be an abstraction. So the ISP also, if let us say, there is an IP address, which is allocated to this router. But this router is offline for quite a while. And this IP address is going useless. So then they will allocate this IP address to something else. And when this router comes online, they will assign a different IP address. So your external IP or global IP changes. So this IP address is not going to be static in nature. But do you think there are certain cases where it should be static? Where you would not want your IP address to change? At least this one. This IP address even if it is changing doesn't matter because the outside world does not know about this IP address. But can there be cases where you would want the external IP address to always be constant? The server's IP address. So for example, if you are hosting a website in your own laptop, then you are going to buy or to win me. And the IP address of your own system, your own network is going to get registered against that domain. So if that IP changes, then the entire routing is going to fail. Your web page is not going to work. So in that case, what is the solution? How do you ensure that this IP does not change? By design, it is supposed to be dynamic. Your IP is going to change it after a while. What is the solution? The solution is capitalism. You pay more money. You buy an IP address permanently. So there are static IP address. If you reach out to your internet service provider, they will tell you that yes, there are ways you can get a static IP address. We will never change it. But for that, you will have to pay us this much. If you can do that, this is your IP address. So you can have a static IP address if you have specifically requested for it. Otherwise, if you haven't made any such specific request, if you haven't paid any extra amount of money, then your IP address is going to be dynamic in nature. But it doesn't mean that it will always keep changing whenever you are doing a restart. Whenever you restart your router, it is possible that you get the exact same IP address every time. Depends on your ISP. When exactly are the refreshing your IP address? Is that clear? Okay. Now this IP address has two different type of information. Because every IP address is suppose if we are talking about this address. Now as we discussed that number of devices are way more than the number of IP addresses than that can be created. But if two laptops or two devices in different network have the same IP address, is there going to be any problem? There are two different networks, right? There is one local network here where we have this IP. There is another local network somewhere else where we have the exact same IP. Is it going to create any type of problem for anyone? Is there going to be any type of confusion when it comes to routing? This is a local IP address. It has no meaning outside this premises. You can assume this is a nickname that it has in its own household. No one knows it outside in the outside world. So even if two different machines, two different hosts have the exact same local IP address. It is not going to create a problem. We just have to ensure that these IP addresses are unique. Is that makes sense? So are all IP addresses unique? The answer is no. The global IP addresses are supposed to be unique. Local IP addresses can be duplicated. In fact, this may happen with you as well. You may get the same IP address here or in the hostel or probably in your home town. This part is definitely going to remain the same. And then there are limited number of possibilities that can be there for the remaining two parts. So repetitions are possible. So. So. Right. So this is a range which is fixed for your home networks. If it is connected to Wi-Fi, then it has to be this. If it is not this, that means there is some issue in the DHCP server which assigns these IP addresses. So in that case, a random IP address would be assigned and then your router or your switch will keep a track of it. So generally what happens is let's understand the assigning of IP addresses. So this organization, it gives the IP addresses to some registries which eventually are going to IP addresses to your internet service providers. Internet service providers are going to assign one single IP address to your router. Now it is the router's job to assign these local IP addresses to every single device that gets connected with it. It's not the ISP job. This IP address is not being assigned by your internet service provider. It is not being assigned by this organization. It is being assigned locally by your own router which means that even if you are not connected with the internet, you will get an IP address because you are still connected with the router. Router will do it. So. Router has a system which is which manages this IP address assignment. So these are protocol for that DHCP protocol which will study in probably the next class only which ensures that all of these systems are getting different IP addresses but also following the home IP address convention. If by chance you see that your IP address is not following this convention that means there has been some issue in the DHCP protocol in that assignment. So that is why it has assigned a random IP address. Okay. Will this is that in the next class? In mobile phones you will get two IP addresses. There can be one for the cellular network and there can be one for the internet. Now if you are changing your cell tower it is possible that your IP address may change because IP address in general is a concept which is supposed to be logical in this. It is not physical. Mac address will not change but IP address is going to change if you change your locality, if you change your service, if you change your path. But whatever Mac address you have that is always going to remain exactly the same. So now this IP address is having two different information. What are the information? First it is going to talk about which host is it going to reach out? One single IP address is going to carry the information about not just the host but also the entire network. Just by looking at the IP address you can tell what is the network? You can reach out to their router. You can open the routers dashboard and you can also figure out how many IP addresses exist in this entire ecosystem. So what happens is there is a concept of, so suppose let us say this is the IP address that we have 192168, 3.70. Now is the router going to see the IP address in the exact same way as we are seeing? How does the router looks at this IP address? As bits right there are zero and one. So for the router these are just four 8 bits number which means for the router is nothing but a sequence of 32 bits. What is 192 in binary? Are you as clear with binary number system? Yes. You are clear with decimal to binary, binary to decimal conversion. Yes or no? Okay. What is 10 in binary? 1010, okay. What is 17 in binary? 1010, 1010, okay. Sure. 1010, okay. What is 15 in binary? 111, okay. So what is 192 in binary? 116, okay. Then what is 168? 1010, 1010, then. How do you do these conversions? So what do you do in this case at least? So in general that is the correct method but in this case you already know the range, right? You know that these numbers will not be larger than 25. 25 is the maximum that we can have. So you just need to check what is the range of these numbers and you just need to keep subtracting the powers of 2. So these are the powers of 2 that you have. 256 is not possible. So the largest power of 2 that you have is 128, then 64, then 32, then 16, 8, 4, 2 and 1. That's it. These are the 8 bits that you have. So if you are able to see that this number is greater than or equals to 128, you write a 1 here. And whatever is the resultant, you check whether it is greater than or less than 64. If it is less than 64, that means this bit is going to be ensemble. Then again whatever is the resultant, you check it with 32 and you keep subtracting whatever is the next power of Z clear. So you have 1 0, 1 0 after that. 1 to 0, okay. What is 3 in binary? What is 17? So basically you can just keep setting these until you get a number which is less than or equals to 70. And now the remaining is 1. So all the other bits are going to be 0 except the last bit. So this is the IP address. This is how our router looks at it. Now in this IP address, some of the bits tell you about what is the network and the remaining bits tell you about what is the host. It is possible that so in case of this home network, as I said that 192 and 166 is going to remain constant, which means that these two set of bits are telling you about the network. This is information about the network just by looking at 192.168, you know that this is a local IP address of a home network. And then these remaining bits are going to tell you about the host inside that network with specific machine I will be talking about. So what is the total number of devices that can be there in this series in a home network how many devices can we connect? If 168, 192 and 168 is going to remain constant, the only thing that can be changed is this part which is how much? Two rest of power 16. What? Minus two? Minus two? So, you know what I keep it inside? How? Okay, so retouch is saying that this is not the correct number. The correct number is two rest of our 16 minus two. So, let us keep it here. We will discuss this. But right now theoretically we can say that there are two rest of our 16 different IP addresses that we can have. What if we have more number of devices? We can have a small network larger than this, right? We can have one single router serving to these many more than these many devices. So what should we do in that case? In that case we have two options. Option one is we create a smaller network. We create another level of hierarchy so that now we have two different so the IP addresses can repeat inside those two small clusters. Or we utilize some bits from this side. So, in that case this hole is not going to talk about the network IP address. Some part of it is going to talk about the network IP address and this part then gets included in the host part. Basically we increase the number of possible IP addresses that can be created for the hosts. But one thing that is going to remain constant is that it is always some consecutive bits of the left side which are going to talk about the network IP and the remaining consecutive bits of the right side that I am going to talk about the host type. It is possible that if you have a very small network then you are only taking these bits for the host. Or possibly if you have even smaller network you are only expecting let us say 10 to 8 laptops or machines you are only taking these many bits. Or if you have slightly larger network you are going to take these for the host and this entire part is going to remain constant for every host which means this tells you about the network. If you have slightly larger infrastructure for example, a university setup then you may go ahead with this 192168 setup. If you have a even larger organization what could be larger than this tourist to power 16 itself is a very large number right. So, what do you think can be an organization where someone will have to distribute more than tourist to power 16 IP addresses. Data centers they have machines which are interconnected generally. So, you do not need to go that far your ISP is an organization which has to distribute so many IP addresses right. ISPs have to distribute IP addresses to millions of people and that ISP itself is nothing but a small network in the larger picture. So, currently we are talking about this let us say this home network or a university setup but if you see from the ISPs perspective this is also not the entire internet this is also one specific small part of it. This is also a local network in itself. So, this is also going to have a range of IP addresses assigned where some part of it will talk about this network and there can be multiple different such networks of ISPs. And the remaining part is going to talk about the hosts which are connected to that is that makes sense. So, how do we know what part of the IP address belongs to the network what part of the IP address belongs to the host that is the information that a subnet mask gives us. So, there is something similar to an IP address that exists. Now, if you again go back to the IP config output or you go back to your Wi-Fi settings along with your IP address you will also see a subnet mask. Is it visible to you what is the subnet mask that you are able to see. You should be able to see so you can see here at least in my configuration addressing configure IPv4 which is using DHCP which is the protocol that I talked about which assigns you the local IP addresses. Then you must be able to see a IP address which is the local IP address of your machine then a subnet mask and then a router IP address as well. And if you simply open that router IP address in your URL you will see a dashboard. It may require a login and password but you will at least be able to see that login page. Are all of you able to see subnet mask in your device yes or no. Okay, so let us do this thing. So assuming this is your IP address or you can take your own IP address this subnet mask is what decides how many bits belong to the network and how many bits belong to the host. Right now the subnet mask that we are able to see is 255.255.255. Are all of you able to see the same subnet mask yes or no. 255 means what is this number in binary. So you have eight ones then you again have another set of eight ones another set of eight ones and then you have set of eight zeros. So this subnet mask means that all the bits or consecutive bits from the left side that are sent which means that are one they are talking about your network address. So in our case in this local area network that we are connected with all of these bits belong to the network side and we only have these many bits which belong to the host side. Is that making sense yes or no. So now using the subnet mask you can figure out what is going to be the network IP address as well. What is the network IP address? All the bits corresponding to these set bits are the networks bit the network IP address representation. So you simply take everything which has a set bit against it in the subnet mask which means that if you write all of these next to each other in line then and you take an end you will be able to get the IP address of the network. This is your local IP address. So now till this point if I take an end if I take a bit by then I'm going to get the exact same value that I have in the actual IP address right which means that all these three things are going to talk about the network IP address. And if we take the end of this part what are we going to get will be adding a zero. So what is the end of these two. If you take an end of any number with one any bit with one what should be the output. If this is a bit a and one what is the output the number itself right. So if I have let's say number having multiple bits if I take an end with a number which has those many set bits what is going to be the output the number itself which means wherever you have 255 in all of those places we are going to get the exact same number so we have 19 to here dot 168 dot 3 and this entire thing is going to become 0 this is the network IP address that makes sense yes or no is it even able to understand this. Now as we said that theoretically there are two rest of our 16 possibilities but the time is saying that we should be two rest of our 16 minus two the reason for the address there are two IP addresses which are visible. This is the net network IP address which means can this be allocated to a machine if we already know that this belongs to the network this is the IP address of the entire network. It means that none of the machines that are connected with this network can be allocated this IP address so we already have one less IP address. Second if you set all the host bits in this case this part is responsible for all the hosts if we set all of them then we get something that is known as the broadcast IP address which means if you send a message to that IP address where all of these bits are set. It is going to be broadcasted to all the machines that are connected with that network. So that since it is dedicated for the broadcast thing that is also removed from all the available IP addresses that we have. So IP addresses the total number of IP addresses that we have inside a local area network that is always going to be two raise to power number of host bits that we have minus two because one of them is reserved for the network IP the other is reserved for broadcast IP network IP address is something that you can get directly by taking an end of your IP address with the subnet mass. And the broadcast IP address is what you can get if you set all the host bits is that making sense. So if this is clear let us have some quizzes. I will give you some IP addresses and some subnet mask you have to figure out what is the IP address of the network you have to figure out the broadcast IP address and you also have to figure out how many devices can be connected in that network. Here is a note. I didn't get you. You are looking for your subnet mask in a backside. See for the subnet mask the correct place to look for it is your own Wi-Fi settings because your local IP address is not visible to the outside. So you can get your own Wi-Fi settings and you can get your own Wi-Fi settings. So these calculations may take some time. So while I create the quiz, let me write down the IP addresses here so that you can start the calculation. Is it visible? So your IP address is 79.255.86.75 and your subnet mask is 255.255.224. You have to tell what is the network IP address what is the broadcast IP address and how many IP addresses can be allocated in this network. So you can get your own Wi-Fi settings. So the process that you have to follow is you can simply check you have to take the end of these two basically all the bits that are set in the network in the subnet mask. So anything above it corresponds to your network IP address. So which means that it is a bit wise and that is it. If you have a set bit in the network in the subnet mask that means that it corresponds to network IP address. How many of you are done? So I am launching the quiz. You will still have two minutes in the quiz as well. So continue doing your calculations and you have two minutes once the quiz is launched. So then you can mark your answer. So the majority of you who participated have got it correct. How do we get the correct network IP address. We simply have to take a bit wise and which means till this point. All of these bits they correspond to the network IP address till we have one which is going to include all the bits here and then three bits of this. This entire thing is your network IP address and after this whatever is remaining that is for the post. So what is the number that we are getting all of these bits means this is going to be 79 all of these bits as well which means 255. Then all of these bits which means this is also going to be 86 and now from here since you are going to take an end these will not be counted. These are going to remain zero which means the number is given by the first three bits. What is that number? That is 64. So this becomes your network IP address. Does that make sense from you? Okay what is the broadcast IP address. Now let me launch another quiz this one should take lesser time because broadcast IP address simply means that you simply set all the post bits. Okay. So you have 45 seconds now. Okay. So you are going to set all the post bits all the other bits are going to remain as it is. So you can simply copy the network bits as it is and all the post bits have to be set to one. So you already have three bits here which means five months. So what is this number? All the other components are going to remain as it is. This number is 95. How do you do this counting very quickly? So every time when you have all the bits set as one that is two raised to power that number of bits minus one. So that's why this is 1375 15 and so on. So you already know this is 64 you simply add it and you get 90. Is that clear? Okay how many IPs can be allocated? What is the number of IP addresses that are possible? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So this is your subnet mask and this is the IP address. Now you can use some online tools to do the conversion from decimal to binary to make it win. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.