. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . kere baadang prishan dat, like you don't even know the basic part of it, just for example, so that's the same case that goes with the machine learning also. If I give him a machine algorithm a very basic task and it tends to fail. So that is not a very good thing and a very good situation to gain. So rather than if I give very high computing task which requires which cannot be done on a normal CPU and a machine which requires a lot of memory and the GPU access and still it is failing, then like it can be understood. And the other part is like gradient and the error features. So I'm not sure if you guys have learned the like hard log radian descent algorithm like anyone has heard about. Okay, it's fine. So in gradient recent what is happening like it is a U shape curve generally and the U shape the bottom of the curve is the minima that we want to achieve. So for a loss it is always ideal to get into the bottom of the U shape curve. So the loss should be very much at a tangent at the bottom of the U shape that is our like assumption. We try to achieve that it is not going to be perfect in any case of the model. It has never been perfect for me as well, but we try to achieve it. And the other thing is like we minimize our error whether like there are multiple error matrix we see after it, but we try to minimize the errors that is running into the machine and we try to achieve the best possible results into it. So loss function is also there like there are many Gaussian distribution, MSEs, nothing but V2 added. And Bernoulli principal is there, log log transformation is there. And the last kind of most final part is like learn parameters fits on train only or what. So if you are learning one chapter, so if you are performing well in that chapter only and you are not able to perform well in the other chapter, then it is not really good. So if I give you another chapter to test upon and you have only read the chapter one, you are not trying to create with the other chapter then like you haven't learned the entire theory to it. That same goes in the model perspective. I showed you more dust afterwards. So now like we formally begin with our classical machine learning introduction. So in the first session, I will be dealing with the supervised, the unsupervised learning. And then the end to end pipeline that how this unsupervised and supervised learning is getting there all. And that one whole idea that combines the entire machine learning. Like everything coming after the session one will be connected to this core functionality of the machine learning. And the other part is like what we are going to learn today is first of all, we'll see that what ML actually is and then types of regression and classification. Then we see the end to end pipeline and then we generalize the train dust split and then we see our first working model. So one thing I really wanted to ask you guys is what I have to achieve in this course is I first teach you some 30% of theory. So and then after that we'll see the 20% of maths behind it. Post that we'll see like 20%, 30% of the hands off and then we'll see like the 20% of the interview questions that are going to be ours and like the company's okay. So this is the data time having that. So if you're learning something and you're not really getting into what I should say, are you really going to see any of the questions that I get in ask them? Like it will be a really shortening experience when you are there for the first round of right to the middle of the course. So yeah, so now we'll go with what is machine learning at this point of time. So anyone who provides that, like try to throw some idea on call over it. If it is there. This was the first question that was asked to me when I was giving my first interview and really went back to the top of it. But yeah, that's one story. And so any intuition that what actually is machine learning on top of it? So if we can start up, not how to do it, but it's better to do it on the right. Yeah, perfect. So what machine learning actually at this point of time is so that who would be really honest to get living in India, okay? India is a country where if any new thing comes up be as an Indian or I as an Indian, also have this habit to make a very huge power on top of it that like it will do in the job. So it will take like all of the steps from the human being, like getting behind of it. But still, like if it is really at that possible scenario, then why does call machine learning it should be having call machine learning, right? So it is still learning. That is the most important thing, right? So if you go like five years or six years down the line, maybe like let's go back to 20, 18 as of now, eight, nine years down the line. When I completed, like I started my bachelor's day. So at that point of time, there was a very like traditional approach that is also still there. So at that point of time, what was happening is we started off with CC++. We do some TSA programming sort of effect. Then we try to figure out a rest, like problem solving approach and then we go ahead and solve certain kind of the problem in group. So this was the first agenda of being a computer science student at that point of time. But now, if I, if you see like everyone will be in a race to go ahead and learn the lead pole problems and everything like solving like 1000 and 2000 problems, you will have all the problem to solve it with like flash or second, right? So that's one point, but this is what I have mentioned in the slide as well. So first thing is the rules, the data and the output, okay? So in the traditional part, we had a problem. We find a way, we find some rules to solve that problem. Then those rules are applied on the data that we are having and after that, we were getting some output out of it. So that was the thing that has been followed, like it's still been followed, but has been followed like measurly in the last eight to 10 years. Now, this is Mitchell's definition, have you gone backwards? Mitchell is small, I'm not sure which university is this, but some kind of American university's scientist is there. And he has proposed a definition on top of machine learning and which is actually like a very small, crisp and, what I can say, a very accurate machine learning definition that he has proposed. So what, as of now is happening is we have, we actually have the data, right? So for example, if I'm teaching in the class, I have all of your old numbers, everything, that is not something which is actual data, but it's some sort of data that is like along with me. Right? So if I want to generate some output on top of the data, then like I have the data, I know what to do with the data. And the rest, I leave it on machine, that you do it, I don't care, like you do how you want to do, I have the data and I know what to be generated in good. And then the machine figured out that how we can like the two of us, that part. So actually in your childhood, you must have seen something as there is a, yeah, then you have to make sure that it locks down from the wrong road to the home. So that is one thing. So we have the data, but machine actually finds the best way out. It doesn't, it needs to be found out by the human. So the material definition that what Michel is trying to say, are having like three things, ET and P. Okay. So is not something as a experience. So for example, what he is trying to persuade into it is, let's say a machine for a task P, if I give a task for a machine to run 100 meters of this, that's not like practically possible. But if the machine tries to accomplish that task of running 100 meters of the base, then what will happen? He'll start like practicing one month before to run that final sprint of 100 meters, right? So after one month, that machine will be having some sort of experience to perform that task P. So let's say if I increase the experience time of that machine, I gave the machine to prepare for like two months and then it might last him to run 100 meters of this. Why not? Well, generally what happens if the machine is really consistent or like someone at all at the same time, like the sand mold or something. So he tend to improve the 100 meters sprint timing. So that's the same ideology that Michel has proposed. So every machine for a task P, it's performance P, all the ways improved with the amount of experience that the machine has had. So for example, you guys are in second year right now. So by going to fourth year, trust me, like you will be the beast in your domain, like whatever domain you are choosing. So we think it's not a really easy course to be improved. So it requires a lot of effort, I know that. And that is the amount of experience that you guys are putting into your task. And after that at the end of the entire course, the performance that you guys will be having, which speak a lot of things about you. So that is how the machine actually doesn't work. And so for example, we get to know that what the problems for EPP precisely says. So the first thing is like we don't really start doing the coding as of now. Like we don't really start and go solving the course before then. So what happens as of now like before solving the code and trust me it is like really, really important for you guys to know. You shouldn't be a really good coder as of now. You should be a proportional business thing that I feel you should be focused on. So see what is happening like in my company also. So there are a lot of subscriptions. We have like lot uses and everything is there. But what happens if we get some new data into it, then Namaskar AI will be having a prior knowledge that what to do. For that human minds are like really, really required at that point of mind. And if you if I proposed a big problem, like that is nothing to do with the business requirements or anything and I end up like solving that big problem. Then at the end of the like entire time period, I will be getting a big result. And the management will be the source and maybe I will be getting like fired out of the organization. So like not in certified but yeah, it will kill the entire like resource and time and the world. So what we are trying to do is we are formulating every scenario for the machines into ATP format. So don't think as a problem. Think it as a task like what you have to achieve from the machines, right? And then once the task is decided, then you will train that machine on top of the task that you have to perform the task. Make yourself like ready to perform this task. And once that machine is ready, like that algorithm is ready to perform that task, we will test this performance, right? So I have given like three examples here, which is this spam detection, how it strikes detection and the customer's share. Right? So basically two more examples are in the classification section and one is the regression section. So anyone can like 10 which one is classification and which one is regression. Like spam detection is there, housing prices there. And the customer share, like these three are the basic projects that you guys will be also making in some time. But I won't suggest you to make this kind of projects. So at this point of time, like out of this is spam detection, housing price and customer share, there is one example for regression and the other two are for classification. So which one is the regression example and which one is the classification example. One is the classification example. Perfect. So at this moment, if you see in the standard detection, so it is nothing but actually it doesn't work for G-MAR also, but yeah, so labeled into spam or not spam. So this is a criteria within that we have followed. So the first one is spam and the second one is not now. And whenever the email is like, tries to reach out or you can't ignore it. And at that point of time, this machine that I work on first has to be the proof or significator based on the past, this is what I did at the time. And then it flags the algorithm. So here, like does all the machines to flag and get the value p. And the experience is the label spam for much time. So we have this sort of image that has been significated as spam or spam based on their behavior, based on their implicit. You might have faced some point of time that you got an SFS with some fake spelling mistakes or something into it and asking to face a certain armature. So if a fact actually sends to an SMS into it, that time will never do any kind of a small CV spelling mistake. So it is just a fraud that is trying to fool you at the same point of time to get something out of you. But it's getting visited. So that is one point. Then on the second is house pricing. So we have the past sales regardless of the entire houses and all that are there in the market. And our task is to predict the price of any of the new houses that are being like, right? And the performance at this point of time will be average through the other. What actually is the price and how we have predicted the price of the new houses. Then we have the customers. Our customer chauvin is nothing that it's basically used in mind as we also. So this is something that we try to hold or our previous existing customers. And that is super, super important. So for example, let's say, the houses is having 100 customers that are regular shoppers. It doesn't matter if it is on E-core or it is on full sale shop, it's on R-trick shop, it doesn't matter. But if they are shopping for a front device, let's say, I have, how I take this is like, for example, I have a customer, I need one. So that customer, I need to see the transaction because of that customer, I need a first project. That customer has paid his boss and burning into two. And post that, I see the pattern that the Benham expert is doing there, Benham expert is, then I got a cover. So for every three or four months, this customer is specifically device. Storage is getting something out of the store. So at that moment, I also know that from last four years of time, at 3, 3, 3 months in the server, this is my customer, which is getting something out of the device's store. So I should make some arrangements or give some discounts or like, bombard the emails or offers to that customer, just to make sure that the customer is happy and doesn't like go to what I can say, leap over or other things come through. So this is how the transaction actually works at goods. So our task is to predict that who will stay and who will leave the next month. And our data is basically the historical patterns of those customers. And then if we are able to retain those existing customer it can sort of, so there is a term used in a retail sector, it is called credit-bletty. And the credit-bletty scores for every retail sector is, so for example, a third of a brand of Louis Vuitton, right? So Louis Vuitton is something, which is really out of the hand-sourced normal people. Like if you go ahead and buy it, like if there's something very, very luncheon here, it's not that off of it. But if you see the customer base of Louis Vuitton, so you will see a pattern that almost 90% of the previous bias has still the customer of Louis Vuitton, right? So people who have bought it once, they were able to be retained into the market and the two Louis Vuitton and all any other brand, it is there. And they tend to be the most credible, like what I can say, most credible users or the end goal of the entire company. So Louis Vuitton takes a lot of care about it. And yeah, this is the state of the LTP that I wanted to share with one example with you. Now look at this weight diagram and I'll tell you a very funny story on top of it also. So you see the first circle is artificial intelligence, right? Second circle is machine learning and the third circle is deep learning, right? So basically what is happening? Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence, okay? And deep learning is a subset of machine learning and a super subset of artificial intelligence, right? So for example, if I say that, let's say all the black managers will be going to, or going into an media or some kind of research, they might go to a moment like that is a real case that I've seen with my life also. So let's say they are going into an media for certain research and, or, but like one guy is going to be going into something like that and then they're going to be going into something like that. So I'm going to say that I'm going to be going into something like that is a real case of artificial intelligence, which is a domain of machine learning where we are dealing with the touch and the personal identity information of the machines, right? The other bio will be going into some sort of facial recognition like science and good. So does it really mean sense that we like classify all these things into AI, right? It is in AI, but what is happening right now? Okay, so what is happening right now here is this, is that this has been very well structured in the US markets and all, but in India, it is still a bit like clumsy into it. So for example, what has happened? I've been giving an interview in the last like one or 1.5 months back just to tell you about this being diagram. So the role was the IML engineering team, okay? So I'll be joining another round of name next one month on the profit as an AI engineer. But what has happened, they were asking something to be into computer vision, right? So the role that they have targeted is either the first intersection of the entire chart, AI. So AI is having everything, right? So it's having a vision also, and they also deep learning also, neural networks all of this into one part. So in India, what is happening right? So if they ask for like if they ask AI engineering, nothing, it's like our responsibility to ask which AI engineering, right? What do you expect from us? So if I know classical machine learning, I'm good at demand for asking, I'm good at time series modeling, but I haven't learned much about how the computer vision is working, right? It's a separate domain. If you put deep inside the computer vision, it is a very huge domain into it. And all the premium companies, like for example, let's say, for a con is there, and all the chip managers actually, there is one more company, which is PSMC, I'm not sure if you're proud of it. I want semiconductor manufacturing companies. So trust me, that is the backbone of the entire semiconductor industry at this point of time. And that's why China is like really on top of a digital model. So for you to get clear and understand that how the artificial intelligence machine learning and deep learning is, so we are lying just at the intersection of those two. Artificial intelligence, for example, if you call it a tomato as of now, and a place or order, and there's something wrong happen. And then you call the customer care, that is also artificial intelligence. Like all the credit, you can call it artificial intelligence or not all. But like to segregate it, we need to go to the main by the way, right? So machine learning is nothing, but machine learning is a basic platform. So you cannot go into deep learning without getting into machine learning. Now it's up to you that you want to go or go and go. But this is at the intersection. So that's why it's something which is a bridge into it. And if you go into deep learning, then absolute it's like on you on your choices. But it's going to be a lot of fun if you go into deep learning. And you have to take care of the actual guiding path whether you want to go into a neural science or whatever it is on the opposite. So that's why I've written deep learning is a subset of the end. So you learn that and then you decide if you want to go into deep learning or not. Okay. Now we will come at the start of the classical machine that we have always. So I've mentioned like supervised, unsupervised, and semi supervised and reinforcement, that's what the architecture is. semi supervised and reinforcement learning. And really, we got into supervised and supervised and it was out. So you guys have an intuition like have you heard like previously what is supervised or what is supervised in terms of machine learning or maybe like most of you have heard like this. So you have an idea of how things are into machine learning. So the virus is supervised. So see what happens in supervised learning. It is like we are having a data which has the features x which is mentioned and the neighborhood that it is via. So what has happened? So we have a why and we have x where why generally depends on x, right? And which is like, for example, it is already targeted for how such players into a play band sandwich. So for example, I have a little bit. So that bit doesn't know it. And I want to teach that bit that you should know which is gone and which is active. So what I do, I make that bit sit in front of me. I'll take like 100 loss photos. And I just go in front of that bit. I'll say this is a dog. This is a dog, dog, dog. Showing like 100 photos, dog, dog. And then 100 photos then saying that this is a cat, that, that, OK. So now what will happen that it will generate a muscle memory based on those photos that I have shown to him. Now at one point of time, I'll say like, I would take some test, gone back in there. And then randomly I will share one different photo of like pink dog or something, right? It is not possible but the structure is gone. And I'll share one photo with pink dog or something. So it is able to identify the structure. And he says that it is a dog but it's something consistent and the dog but it still is a dog. Then I believe that it has learned what was the distance between the dog and a cat. So I am using a dog and a cat as an example. It is nothing but the label data set. I already labeled the 100 loss photo and 100 cats photo in front of that bit. And in the month super wise, learning only features happen, no time. That's what it means. So on top of it, like we are having features, but no target that means like, I know like, I have a strong zone here but I don't know where to go, right? Like what to do with that thing? So for example, what should I say? Let's say a house has a feature of being into home and having a 4-BHK in it. But no one knows whether it is going to be sold at good paro to these or five to four to these or 10 to the least. That is still a home, right? We know all the features of the house that it is having a lavish window. It is having a really good size area. But we are unsure about the capacity that whether that house price is going to be lented. Again, it can be determined based on the other houses that are all the similar features into. But we really don't have a certain number for that specific house as we are having for cats and dogs. So this is unsupervised. Like take it at the example that you are giving a property exam in front of anyone or maybe like an unprocating exam in front of someone. No one is there to like see you do whatever you want. That is for sure. And then I have shared an example on top of the supervised running and the unsupervised running, which is the customer segmentation. So we know that the customer has bought like previous things in the last. But we don't know if it's going to, like, it is something that, what I can say, it is something that the bada is are doing now, right? So they are making a prediction on top of it. It's nothing but a prediction, right? So machine is also doing the same thing. But it is making a prediction. What happens if the prediction is doesn't right? I will be getting fired, you know? So if it is not right for like 60% of the time out of under-judictions that I have made, like, 60 have been won like visibility wrong. Then it is not making sense. I was only way more than worse than the average. If I make like I have two choices, I paid one ten minutes of 50%, 50% probability. I'm like performing really, really low and the probability also. So it's not good. So in a supervised running, we have the house price regressions or a stand prediction, classification, so here house price isn't a supervised running because we have to predict one certain number for that house. And like, see, I've mixed the examples just to make sure that you don't confuse that classification and regression is supervised and unsupervised. Supervised can also have classification and regression code. So it's pan prediction with their zero price. And house-wise prediction is there is also supervised. So they are both in supervised category. So don't get confused that we are having classification and regression code. So they have linked to supervised and unsupervised and so on. So that's one thing. And if I move ahead into it, so we'll see that what is regression and classification has of now. So this is the point of time when you guys will get an intuition in the real world data. That how it is happening. And what will happen at this point of time is you'll have a problem. And then you have to make sure that which part you would. So for example, regression, you all might have been knowing what is regression or not. So let's say regression and classification has two different kinds of mathematical equations and approaches that have been shielding after afterwards of this. So what has happened right now is we have to predict one certain normal, a normal which is a decimal or a number, which is like any sort of mathematical expression. Then people will be regression. And what has happened right now? So let's say you guys will be appearing for the end of examination and you guys will be getting some sort of the solution. So don't worry about that examiner. So like you take your own. But you must be getting some sort of school. So if I had a chance to predict by some of the scores and those scores will lie in some sort of numbers, maybe 90 or 90 or 99. Or something like that. So if at any point of time we have to predict something which is a novel and which is a continuous value. At that point of time, we will be using regression as the algorithm. And if we have to predict some categories that what I can say, he's lying or he's not lying. And maybe he's a dog or is a cat. Only two labels are there. It's true or it's false or like it's spam or it's not spam. He's going to purchase it or he's going to not purchase it. He's coming or is not coming. If there is any type of clear segregation or what I can say, and she's learning terms, pins and buckets are there. So any output that I'm going to predict is going to solve at the one certain category or one certain point. In that case, we always go by the classification pattern. So I have a question in front of me. So this is the exact question that my heart to bring me in the high source is the value that I feel. And this is a piece of it. I was like praying to get out of that interview but otherwise I couldn't shut my lapar off. So that is one thing. So that guy asked me, let's say there is a number of 1, 2, 5. So is it a regression or a classification? So we have a number of 1, 2, 5. We have to predict something pretty point to find. I have a range from 1, 2, 5. And I have to predict and it will be something easy. So we'll need to be a regression problem or a classification problem. But that depends. See, for example, I said I have a range of 1, 2, 5. So that range of 1, 2, 5 is how the range it is. Is it 1, 2, 3, 4, 5? It's 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 2, 1, 1, 3, till 2, 5, or something that is also a range, which I call a decimal error search. So again, that question is either that we value. Like depending on the use case that what you want. So for example, I did the same thing that you answered now. I answered the same thing. But that created a, what I can say, a that created a handy deal down source, the interval that how you can be so sure that it is a classification problem. So I said, like not that I've given that you have five buckets on. So I will like based on that, I'm going to get a prediction of why value when you are only having five, three, three, four, five, five, like sorry, come to five, four, three, four, three, three, four, three, four, three, four, three, four, three, so if like, for example, if I have five, five, three, three, four, five, five, four, three, four, three, four, any prediction will be having like 20% product rating to fall into. But if I say I'm going to regression, then I will also like regression will also predict one number or something. But if the range is like in producing, then 1.1.2 every one and 12 will be having 10 into it and then 10, 10, so 16 towers and then 50 divided by 100 will get into the property. But unnecessarily like increasing the number of the contribution that the machine has had. But the real answer to that in the viewers is that the target is not handled by you or not at 100 people and by the day, not like this is the exact sentence that he mentioned to be like. So it is 100 people by the day, you choose it. OK, so what is happening? I am the person or you are the person who's deciding the target right? What I want, whether I want it to be predicted or not or want to change or find, whether I want it to be predicted or not or 2.2, 2.3, 2.6. So if my target or the end goal changes, my outcome will also change. I won't step to one pattern. So if this comes up, come up, try giving it back to the interviewer in the scene for me. So ask them like, what do you mean? What do you exactly mean or thought of it? So you have given a hypothetical situation in front of me as of now. Where all the pictures can be done. And that depends on you. That's what you guys are putting out. So you've got two certain numbers and two it. I wrote it and I wrote it down the regression part. And if you're not doing certain numbers, then I try to save up your resources and memory at the end. And I use the classification on top of it. So this is pretty much the difference between the regression and the classification that we are having as of now, it is also going in the same way. So now this is the entire MLflow that is having the dust. So the upper idea is a business problem. Data collection is on top of the business problem. EDS is done on the data. Then the data keeping, then the future engineering, then trend test display. By the way, trend test display time to be processing that we're discussing right now also. And not be processing, be processing. And then just a second lecture also. And then we go to our training and then we validate the train model and then we do the hyperparameter doing and then we have to evaluate the final process and then we go to the good algorithm and the model. So what happens as of now is, for example, see, I'm trying to relate it with something which is like, although I'm not sharing the exact details of the organization, but I'm trying to relate it with some real word examples into it. So what has happened as of now, in my company, they are having multiple sub-continues in total. So for example, Levi's is not only sold in India, it is selling into North America. North America, I don't know which, where it originated. But it is selling like, relate to North American region. Then into Latin America, into Europe, then into Asia Pacific, China, Pakistan, everywhere, in the South. So the other part is we have a business problem that we want to increase the sales or if not, like in the worst possible case, if we don't able, we are not able to increase the sales. Then we stick to the current one. It is not like, it shouldn't be like in the coming train the sales patterns of the revenue pattern should fall down. Then it is a loss and loss situation for any other problem. So we get a business problem and what happens? So we coordinate with the team and they have the data. Data collection is something that we are using in Levi's. So for example, we are having like five tables in the R company. So those five tables are, can you estimate the size of the tables? For example, I spent tables and nothing, but it is in SQL and it has the column of the data collection schema architecture. So they have the data into a data format, but it is stored in the cloud, precisely on Google Cloud. So can you estimate the size of one? Like we are having five tables, but one table size can you estimate how much it can be? Let's say the product information on Levi's. So it is around 16 TV of data. If you open like 2, 12 or 13, like Mb of data can you excel with I3 processor? It will slow down and it will take like 10, 15 minutes to load into itself. So you cannot imagine through get all those data, like 16 TV of data for Levi's products into it. And then on top of the other 16 TV for transaction, then they are using battery data. These are the stocks that we are having right now. And do the entire data analysis on top of it, it is not possible, not possible at all. You will end up using like everything in the domain. You will end up cashing it and it's done. So what we do, we, like I'm getting into just a depth on the data collection part. Data will never, never be at your source laptop. It can be at your source laptop if you're making your own project, right? But in industry, it is never, never going to be on a source laptop. And if it is on your source laptop, and if you are directly speeding that data into some sort of LLM, then it is, like I'm not sure if it is getting spared if you are not getting caught when it is OK. But if you are sharing that entire data, for example, I sent like 100,000 rows on Excel and I do loaded it to God, then what will happen? Levi's user concern that now I'm trope it is having my personal details of what product and idea I'm having. So if I had to choose between you and entrop it, then I would have choose entrop it also. I should keep you for the data processing part. So that's why we always follow a certain pattern that the data from the source will be went into the cloud format. It is stored into cloud and we do the all the processing into cloud, we can fetch the data outside. We don't fetch the data. We fetch the details out of the data from the cloud. So in our case, the cloud platform is big wave. Sorry, the cloud. And the fetching data platform is the big wave. So we use big wave to fetch the data from the cloud. And then it comes to us. Then we have an MBA team. So what MBA team does is we see the columns. So it is nothing like it is the basic step. I don't know why it is so over-high-done. So MBA is something that says they have dumped data to the cloud. Now they don't tell. They just want like you do whatever you want. Just give me the end result that if I asked like a red t-shirt of a rice of medium-sized in North America, at this pin code, at this is stored, how much it will be selling in the next 15 days you have to tell me. So that is the level that they want to go into and try to get the prediction. So at this point of time, EDA is something which we do want to go for data to see that how the patterns of the data. So for example, we are having certain customer ID, the product code, the size, the color, the product article. If it is a relaxed fit or a loose fit or a slim fit category, if it is falling under the mask category or a little category or a moist category, if it is acid-seated or if it is a shoe or something. So that categories are there. So we know after performing the EDA that Levi says having let's say five categories into men's, women's, tops, bottoms and accessories. Under men's, so we are just following a three-light structure. So under men's, we are going into tops and bottoms or shoes or accessories or sunglasses or something like that. Under tops, we are going into regular fit, relaxed fit, slim fit, formulas, everything. Now under regular fit, we are going into colors. So it's a black color, blue color, and one more thing. Like the color name is not really as we are thinking, so they have different color shades. Like they name it all their portion, do it or something. Every time they rename, like, mix some two colors and they invented something new all of it and then it creates a rainforest. So different colors are there. Then under different color, it is different size. After different size, it is, and this one goes for everything, like men, women and other people. Now the lowest level is the size of the product, the other size of the product. Now they ask us to predict that same lowest level that how much it is selling and how much it will be sold in the next like one month or so. Right? So what happens? Like if we have to like predict the lowest part, we have to drill, any way we have to drill down the entire data that they have sent. So this thing is done by EBA. After that, we went into the data changing pipeline. So what data training does? So I'll share you one classic example. I said that there are five tables and two guys. So now after this, like, you will be knowing like more the amount of things that I am knowing for all of us. You guys will be also knowing that thing. But yeah, anyways, really. So yeah, so in the next like approach, we are having like five tables with us. So let's say one table is having the product data and the other table is having the transaction data. Right? So this is the product and this is the transaction that I'm having. This product is start acting this many times. This product is start acting this many times. And the third table is the inventory table. So what we did like each table is having its role. Inventory table is the base of all the tables, right? If I am not producing the product, how can I expect that product to be listed into the product table? And how can I expect that product to be getting sold? If it is not getting produced or if it's not in the inventory. So what happens? When they dump the data, there are n number of times when this thing has been happened and I have been the eyewitness of it. So there has been like several products which are not in the inventory. Let's say product, article XYZ, is not in the inventory table, but that product article is getting sold into the transaction table. So this creates a lot of discrepancy that if the product is not there, like where it is getting sold, like who is selling it? Is it the first company of like how you are getting into it? Or the like stores are getting manufactured on their own. So that's one point and the other one is like, is for we have market on data that discounts and also. So for example, a store sells like 50% discount. I do get to feel like they are all like basically a faith hence. So what they do is they increase the, so there's an RP of 100. So what happens in real sector, they will increase it to 120 and then market like 10% off. So ultimately, it is getting sold to 108 rupees only. They are making profit only. So there's no one like who is selling for loss. So that's one thing. And so what we have to do is we have to clean those data. We have to make sure that the data that is going into the model it is clean. Like the model we see the data it will like it. I choose once I did is seeing that the product is present into the product master and the other sign in the inventory will see that it is not present. He will affect the model. It's also like won't know that what to do in that step. Like it is a wrong feeding for the model. So we are treating like the entire algorithm as a baby. So we are babysitting it. We are giving some clean raw foods to it that you team and you predict team. And yeah, that is more of a clear concept that we are using. After that, we are drawing feature into it. What features are there? So again, on top of, this is like a really good example to bring into it. The device one on top of it. So for example, what it does in feature engineering. So there is a store in Iceland. And there is a store in Edinburgh. So these two have the different geographies. So what feature engineering does is like if I go into a store in Iceland, I won't find, maybe I can find, but I won't find any thing of Levi's, which is selling shorts. They won't sell shorts, like who is wearing shorts in the highest temperature. They usually have Levi's jackets, upper jackets, or maybe like sweatshirts or putty. So their inventory is full of data with a sign. And if I go into, let's say, Pakistan. So they will have something which is kind of old t-shirts or something like outdated stuff or not exactly old. But old t-shirts or some kind of inventory like that. So my point of saying that thing is, in feature engineering, we don't have similar features. I'm able to similar part of it. So for example, when I am doing feature engineering, I keep that in mind that in India, every 15 to 20 days, there is one festival for sure. And people are buying some of the other goods for sure. So whether it is a maybe a pen or a spoon or so, but bill buys something. At one festival, they will show you buy. But what has happened as of now for feature engineering, we see different kind of areas. So we see the events in India. So there is a Diwali, the share of the billion, he is also kind of an event as of now. So he treat as an event and like great in India and see for Amazon, it is also treated as an event. And we do the event tagging of different geographies. So in the US, there are a lot of like their own events, public holidays and all. And you won't believe that the FIFA World Cup that has been happened right. So I'll tell you an example what feature engineering does to a store. So what has happened? So there is a stadium in, so this has been hosted. I think in US, Mexico and Canada, they have hosted like together if I'm not wrong, so on top of it. So if we are forecasting like something on the stores. So what has happened? There has been a buzz for FIFA World Cup since last like four, five months before even starting. So we targeted for that, we have to like introduce some more features into top of it and how did we go into it. So this is again the business problem. So now we want to take care of the FIFA World Cup scenario as well, that is our business problem as of now. And how we are taking into it, taking the scenario is like, first, we will see the venues that are decided in FIFA World Cup. So let's say stadium x, y, z is at this pinboard. So this is the venue that I'm having, that is my data. So what we have, our team has finalized them. Now we have a venue, every location is having certain pinboard, drawn at the equilibrium distance, or a straight line distance, or a radio distance of 5 kilometers and targeted all the devices to us that are presently 5 kilometers radius of that, like what I can say, venue. OK, what it does, no one is going to purchase a lot of things into it, but they will show me, like, for example, if we are going into some sort of stadium or watching the match, then a Levi's t-shirt may be a foot ball of print Levi's t-shirt, it's highly likely to be getting sold at other prints of the shirt, right? So we targeted almost stores, the closed proximity stores. We now we have the data, that closed proximity stores, which are there, we have the nearest station of those stadiums where the match are happy, right? Then under those stores, we don't get to the entry that, and tell me the split that while you guys are having as of now. So now we get to know the exact number of t-shirts, burgers, patterns, whatever they are having in the entry, we saw that, right? Now being the point that if it is on match, at that day and before one week, we try to optimize the inventory in such a way that, let's say, a foot ball print t-shirt on a sports beer collection is, you have that higher salary, it will be 70%, 30 split for the sports beer t-shirt, and 30% for the discount rate is there. So it goes and sees something, or that's a peak or a local collection, maybe like a buy one, I'll be here to direct our stadium. So it's highly likely to be stored. So that's why we had optimizing the newer feature into it. Different features like event seasonality are always there, OK? But newer feature is based on extreme events, right? It's for example, how should I say? Let's say if there is a F1-day school in Kerala, everyone is rushing by at least some of the furniture whoever is going to see the F1, maybe it's a max Mr. Ben Merge or whatever it is, like more cities, land-red pool families go and buy the t-shirts wherever it is possible. So that is even that is being created. That was not in the historical way. So features also depend on the historical part and the upcoming part. So that's one of the trend test split will cover at this point of time. Then we'll do the model trading. So model is basically now when the data has been decided and the trend test split has been decided, then it goes into the model trading. Now after that, it will go into the validation. If it is performing well or not, then we will tune the hyperbarometer to make sure that it reaches the maximum possible capability of it. And then we evaluate it finally and then we'll deploy. So yeah, so we'll move ahead on this point of time. I think I have shared the business problem logic into it. So this is like the same thing. If we agree to a wrong metric, then we will end up producing a wrong output for that metric also. That is the same thing. But now I'll go into this equation. So the first one is like the training error and the two error, these two parts. So just one second, I'm trying to switch or maybe I'll switch it up then. So the first thing here is what we are doing right now. We are having a universe. So universe, you must be really good at math also, much better. I guess. At this point of time, a universe, what we say in terms of set's and theory, a universe is something which is having everything inside it. Like each and every data from lies under the universe. So we are having a unknown distribution data is drawn from an unknown distribution D. So unknown distribution is something. So the D is something which I'm considering at a universe. It is a universe. I have drawn something out of the universe. And then it is x and y. So x and y is nothing but the predicted value and the features. OK. Right. Now we see the finite samples into it. So D was universe. I derived some data out of the universe. So that data which I have derived is not as large as the universe, right? The universe which I'm taking it as s. OK. And these two metrics. So whenever in interview, if you have asked what is really, really important, ignore this one. This is never going to be useful. Never. Like this is not treated any time. Nothing to do with real life. Nothing. And this is the one that is going to be there all the way around. So what's the difference between first, let's understand what the equation is. So this is x of i. x of i is nothing but the feature of that model. What I am feeling in to it is about like Christmas day, or it is at the valley, or like it is a blue-galatish, or a red-galatish, whatever feature that product is going to be there. It's a child. It's a child. I don't begin. Wait, wait. Now this is good. Now this is good. Which part? Why more is showing to you? What is showing? The slides are showing. I still am showing them. Now this is showing here also. And in the meetouts, right? Yeah. So like, you know, we are in the training at the lesson here. So now we are having certain f of x i there, which is the combination of the features. And we are predicting why part of the feature is good. So why is nothing but the same part? Why are we are predicting? And one of the features that we are looking for. And we are taking an average. And it's nothing but the number of the numbers or the numbers that we are having here, getting an average of good. But this is only in the training data, right? So we take the remember we take out an average sample s out, right? So what we did, we take out the sample s. We gave the entire sample to the machine. You see that sample. You learn it. And you test it on the same sample. It is same like I am teaching you this one, right? I am giving you like, maybe I get you 100 questions to solve. And then the same 100 questions and you give me the example. So obviously you will score like very fair amount of options. So the machine does the same thing, right? I gave the sample to the machine. Machine takes the sample. Machine learns on the sample. And machine is getting trained on the sample. Then it is of no rules, right? Absolutely no rules, right? Machine will not get any check out of it. It is of no rules on my model of the machine. But if you get into the true sample, then what has happened? The function has been changed right now. So this is a problem. It is the again, the same function of the features. But if you see the difference here, here we have used I.F. value here. We didn't use the I.F. That means this is the collective features for all the products that we have. Right? So machine is getting trained on one part. But while we are testing it, we have a moral responsibility to test the machine into the actual vehicle data. Which the machine has never seen you. Right? So you will have studied all of the things. If I have shared the same thing, I will be performing really well with it. But I will just try and be a little bit. Then that will be an actual test of the single. You can tell that the concepts are really aligned with it. Same goes for machine. Like machine will also be having at this point of time as a human. Right? So what has happened? We have given the entire set of features, which is effort. Here we have effort x. I.F. is for the same one. Then here we just talk. Here we are getting the average. We are summing it up. Then we are getting the average of the entire population. Here what we are doing. We are getting the D part added here for x and y. The D is nothing but we have taken all the samples. What we were doing was. What we are taking the error measure over the universe. We are not taking the error measure of sample. That is machine is already taking all samples. So if we are trading the machine on the sample itself, they need the error from the sample itself. Then it will score it was about 99%. But I trade it on the sample. I test the error function on the universe. The universe is something like the machine has never seen other data. Maybe like it is having a similar type of a double. Not exactly the same data. So machine will give like this matrix. That's why I do it. This is a rubbish. I will say. This is never going to be used. This is theoretically there. In real life application, this equation is absolutely useless. This is the one that we only care about. Entire machine learning algorithms is dependent on this true error. We can measure the first. That is what I will write. We can measure the first. But we only care about the second part. Like the true error. Not the training error. Now here comes the full data. I will write it on the basis of the test. By the way, the train 80% and test 20% it is theoretically. For example, if I link it to the machine's definition there. Just try to get an intuition into it. Why will happen now? Classic machine learning interview. They will try to confuse you by throwing a number of statements in front of you. They will try to get an intuition. What I said in the Mitchell's definition, it was like TTP. T was the task. E was the experience. And T was the performance. So the performance at task T will improve with experience E. That is why, like, in theory they have also put that 80% and 20%. 80% is training data. That means we are not able to get the data. We are not able to get the training or experience. And then we are testing the true 80% data. So that the machine is well experienced. True data or the product. And now what is happening in train test is that we go into 80 and 20. Then it is random. Like at the end of the session, I will also share one. I will show you one. Jupiter notebook has pre-formed it. It will be like taking like 5-10 minutes. You will see that happen in a good. In the full data set, we are having train and test is played. And let's say 100% of the data is there. So it is random. So for example, the machine what will be displayed into a random performance, training and testing, take the random 80% of the data, train it. And the 20% there is one important condition. This like, what will be the test said, whatever it is, whatever it is. Like, no matter like whatever is played, maybe 5% of the data is into the test is played. But this shouldn't be visible to machine. Like if it is visible to let's say the same factor, guys say in the examination also, if I share my experience with 5 in X plan, you want to see one question in the test. Then like it will get a solution that will have a solution going to be asked. So we try to hide those tests data from the machine as much as possible. We at any cost it will be at few once, like at 40. Okay, it will come at you go once once it is used, it is used. It's never going to be into that machine again. So now we are having train data as a key test data as a key. It is calculated in the other iteration if I run, then it will again shuffle those data points. So for example, let's say one data which was at the training period at the first iteration when I ran the algorithm. Can be in the testing period in the second iteration when I ran the algorithm. But now machine is not having a memory on top of it. It is creating a memory only when I am deciding the training test is good. So now the shuffling will happen and some of the part will go into 80% data and some of the part will go into 20% to be get tested on. Now this is the library which is the training test. There is a lot of library. Trust me every work is done on D1. So now we have like maybe for the test script it does the job. So just you have to define the matrix. So here we have defined test size at 0.2. So it will convert it into like the percentage in 20%. 20% of data in 20% as a testing period. So as we discussed earlier in the formula part, the error for that machine. So machine has been trained into the train data but we care about the error that how it is performing the test data. We don't care about how it is performing train data. So test data error will be the final matrix that will be used in that time. Now this is a question for you guys. I already asked I guess. So let's say I am 1000 rows. I trained the machine on 1000 rows. And then measured the accuracy for those same 1000 rows. So will we have been seen that? I have the product between for all the device. I have been doing the feature engineering for those products only. And I am not thinking about what is going to be happening in the future. So I am getting happy at my own list that my model is really performing well. And like it is super good. I am not taking out the work of the machine on the robot. But it is not going to happen. If I am getting a real world data on a certain scenario that my model is pushed into it will collapse. That's exactly why we are concerned about that test data. And now like we will be getting into the node look for the first flow. Then we will get into the intervolution. So bring I'll just share my screen. So this has the jupiter node look now that will run for you guys. If I share jupiter node look here it will run right. Are you able to see my jupiter hook node look into the online class over here? Are you able to see this in the online class as well? Now we will go just for the intuition part we will go ahead by and look here. So I have pre-interested it because now we are located into the California house data site. This is a real world data. So there are one of the data sites that are available in the data. So then we will go to the California house and see where it is. I'll show you. In the this line from a scalar data sets. So a scalar means nothing but a library. So data set is we need something to see. So for that reason I have like fetching the California housing data sets from a scalar here. So how we are doing the fetching for a scalar in the California housing data set. It is like we want to get into high speed prediction or something to see a null value of a null. So basically we get an intuition of the data set to be a null value. So it won't be like much high this something basic. So we will see like small small drift and road. But this is something that I gave on to show you at the end of going towards the end of the lecture. So you shouldn't be in the impression that you just have a theory theory in your mind. But you haven't looked at the graphs or something. So this is one thing now when I do a setup I will run this. So what it is doing it is importing the numpy which is the mathematical library for it. Pandas then I went to import it like a matrotlib. So these three libraries are necessary to perform the matrotlib in the same way. So this is the results in terms of the graphs and pandas and numpy at this point and mathematical computation. Then we are importing the train test display pretty much this is the predefined library for those train test display data. And we are having that train test display to 80% as per the theory also. Okay so now we get the libraries. This is the random seeding of 42 anyone knows that what it does. I don't like see the comment. So see what happens like we want to maintain the random test in our data. For example, that is what you are house it doesn't have like that thousand and it has multiple homes in the house. So when we want to close it to the 80% or like we want that to be 90% in the data. Let's say that 80% data. Let's start the form. One first row to the 80% data that will be getting into that what I will say. Retrain it. But what if the 51 through is having some outlier into it. Like some data which is having like something like exceptional. So for example, what happens I train my model to predict the full casting of. Of a sure and what happens I train it on top 50 rows and at 51 through it is like a pink shirt is there and it is selling thousand. So my model like never ever get to know if I kept the training period as fixed like take the top 80% and train on it. So that's why we have kept it as random 40 to like 42 is just a number. But the seeding random is like it will shuffle the data set every time right. It won't take like top 20 top 80% or so bottom it will take like it will see the 100% data take random 80% out of it and then keep the 20% rest aside. Now that is the libraries loaded now this is the ETP part that I have already like shared it to you. By the way, I don't have the scalar ID between me as well. So what happens here is we have created like we have defined a variable housing and we have fetched the function which is here in the fetch California housing data set. So we have created it as frame as true what frame as true it will just like if I don't show into as a table format. So now what is this this is having like 20640 rows and 9 columns and so for example like we are just printing the head as a 5. So 5 rows are getting printed and this is having like all this columns which is 1.4 key for high society at 9 columns and like 20,000 or the rows and so. Now we are having the look of the data that how our data is looking into this is the first part that we are getting to know the data that how we are looking into. Now what this after looking this data as I said that it has been asked in the new or so the time rate is mostly 50% so it is not something that I have the model I have the resources but let's say I have what I do. So I have to go and I have what like one for boy so I will decide which would go to it right so at this point of time at this stage we are choosing the median house value as a packet level. And then like if the median house value has been choose and it is in 100 k range for example in the graph I will show you so that is a number right so the number is there we are going with the regression format on top of it. We will first use the linear regression model only so now we have the target in our mind based on the data we have to predict the median housing values of any random house which is there will not use it so just to make sure how to look at the class I just make one question and if someone answers it like I will be like I think you are his answer on the board so you see here right. This part so this is nothing first I will let you know the graph what I am telling so this is median housing values in 100 k so the index has been range from 0123 which is like 0183 100 k and the y axis is nothing but having the number of houses right so the first graph is clear to you the number of houses and the range of the price that they are in and the median income versus the household value so this is like. So this is like really cloudy you know like the spread see what what the spread is the spread is this. So what does it says it says so in x axis if you move to the right hand side right hand side this is the median income and then y axis if you move above this is the median household value so for example whose family will be having a certain good house. So that is kind of a linear relations between the house and the actual one part now my question not all of it was so this is how the graph looks like right I am asking like see for example if I see this graph then let us say here this part this peak is there so it is somewhere around 1.1 video something. So 1.80k is the median house value almost almost 1000 units of house lies in the 1.80k of median house right but guys if I go at the right hand side then what is this like 500k of house and that is also having like a lot of numbers of food right by this. The price has been increased right so what you have to see what is happening from here very low prices house are also very low so if we go in the median of the household income then the houses number of houses are getting increase and in the median will be also somewhere here right but if I go to the street the right hand side the price has already increased but the number of houses have been already increased so that is not saying that. So that is 500k was that we are having close to 1000 unit of house so why is that so see what is what is going into at this point of time is like in the real one data what the algorithm does is this does not happen right that see what is happening if I have to go like me as being a model or a machine learning algorithm it is hard to run and my task is to run then for how much spend right I will have something at the maximum threshold right don't keep on running you are hard to have one easy to instances and you are so I can do one thing right so do some percent of the time is on easy to instances are cloud instances where you host your like whatever resources you do like I have to do. So what happens when you set up your own easy to instances you will be doing maybe third of all but for sure you will be doing so at that point of time you arise that Amazon with your UTI or any credit card or something that is the payment option there and Amazon is very smart or not often they have set it as pay as you would so pay as you mean that the amount of resources that you are using you are paying for those much resources only but people people they are not like lazy ok so what happens on top of it sometimes you run like your instances with the client of models there are whatever like the client that's right or something into the production you have been deployed but you don't turn off your Amazon issue with instance then the billing goes goes on goes on at the back end and some at the 31st of month or like when there is a bit cycle you see like some crazy amount for people on your phone so that is one thing so that that hasn't really got so you have I have to do it. You have to switch it off or you have to be aware to tap that Amazon easy with some like roll my credit for like 50 million dollars and data is because you don't want to run it for like that in turn and then all over so you don't have to go over there right and one thing happens in Google's law also it happens in my company as well so the big query so query what is it what it is doing it is working on the data right so data we are fetching it from query so query goes and hit the database it takes the data of it so while taking the data of it. It uses GPU GPUs also hosted on cloud so if we don't have like big physical GPUs it will you can see the gaming laptop so you can't hear that it is on I actually I guess like people require some Nvidia 5060 or whatever the GTS words are in it. So the same thing happens a guy run a big query that was running joining two data set making the session of it so in total it was running on 26 TV of data and what happens that there ran it in the night just because the IT team was not available in the night also in the morning the IT team has a close monitor that which query has been running for what we did off time and usually as a best practice if some queries running beyond 40 seconds. So that guy ran it because in the morning call scrum we have to show life the entire result into it guess what that query ran for around like four and five hours and there was a bill of 80,000 rupees popping up for the company and the next morning what that actually happens so that is the same thing when we go to the top of our like result. So this point of time is going to be to the graph what has happened it is not just 500 K price of the house it is the summation of all the houses which are having 500 K price or maybe 600 K 700 K 800 K all of them has been clubbed down to 500 K and it is being raised apart on the profit so this is nothing but trading as outlier in the terms of the transfer fee when we fetch it into the model it will take the actual data that is not actually but just for the people representation it is showing time. So now what we are doing we are separating the target x and y so see what is happening we divide the target by the hospital so in total our data was having 20640 and 940 and we are having violation of the hospital. It is not visible yet. Now so what has happened into this split right target and not target and not so our target is even how that might be right we do not require the other one it is required for the data scene but our target is only that one particular one right. So why is all this the target so we have removed the entire we have removed the target and x shape we have defined as all the different type of the features that we have in future we cannot add that target that we want to do so we removed that one from x that we are trying to do it. Now this is the mistake on the data that we have done it like one purpose okay so we have chosen the linear representation the gain on values is not a problem scale okay. So wrong order fit is there and what it is doing x and y so we have given the fit of x and y only and this is the RSME level and this is the RSME and RSTOR level part of it. So wrong order what we are trying to do this is the root mean is where I will show you how this is related and this is the RSME level and this is the value of having do not make it a percentage like we have done it and you have done it. So at this point we have done it we mean that this one one of the which is there and the one thing we didn't split the data because no right no right all you do not any data set all you do not see data set like you answer the same question. Now we don't have to do it now the correct is to use the trained to split we didn't use the trained to split the line we just think like the X and Y for if we take the entire in the second words like the model has now the access of every data that you want he has seen the entire papers or everything that was shown there and now it will predict like good numbers on top it's still not good but see what happens in the year but not if you go in the year. So there is a client name all states you might have heard of that all states or something so that client is a new client for us that time system is like the people all that's the research 99. In fact like we cannot do with the node network so for last year of 99% we are seeing confusion only 5% of the time we are waiting and in that we are 95% of the time we are being small on that is like if that is the level of detail I can achieve or any model can achieve in life and like it's a good way to be right. So it's never going to be if you are going at a 70% or 75% accuracy it's like way more than what is required in real world data set. So now what is happening we have created our trained to split into it so we are now having a trained rule of 16152 and the test rules go on to that. Just as I said 80% for experience and 20% of the testing period so now what is happening the test rules for 412 and goes is unseen to the machine level only the machine learning will get the access of this rules. Now what will happen again I have rooted the regression model then I am looking at strain and by train both of them x by we have these credit access to now that we did not find that. So the training data set or x by we have loaded into it then this is the model which is predicting the access based on the access to predict then we will tell you the same winners of train, be this one error and test. So then we will calculate the train or square error and then test or square error if you see here the train error is 720 test error is 7465 and R square error is 0.162 and R rule R square error is 0.567. So what has happened in training period the model has got an error or by the way you know that which is higher over the time. So for example R is like error nothing but it is one point access access or residual divided by access of total right time. So I will show that to you afterwards I will use the right one maybe. So if R square is closer to one then it is like perfect model and in the scale of getting closer to one if it is like 0.70.80.80 or one one to it is like very perfect like if you would not get easily and if you move below negative and all then it is like worst. So at this point of time we have a very small problem. So what is happening R square error 0.163 or the training it does not so it is getting closer to one so that's why R is possible really good at it. But it is probably good idea training it does not. Now if we move into test one if I would have put the train into it then it has been performed as seen as it has performed in the train. But test is something which is unseen now at this point of time you will see that there is a gap between R square. So it has performed really well in the training data set but the performance drop when I give some random start. So that is the actual expected behavior of that model. Now this prediction part can see. Okay this is currently what is connected somehow. But anyways that was there in the graph I will show you. I mean it is almost done in the last part. Yeah now you might be seeing this like. So the last step was this one. So what is it doing because we have done the regression and the progress. So how do you do it? You have seen like a random data test error was like some of the random data 6.1 and then test I was like. So what actually is? If someone asked you to interpret this last then how it will do that is the correct answer. Come to the origin till the one it is a linear like why is it virtual and express like. Okay then what has happened is like we have like two things like side by side to this one which is. So the predicted points that we have predicted for the house pricing. So that prediction line is. And all the points are exactly on the line. This is starting right for example if I see here this part this part this this three of dots or these three houses or maybe these three are very close to the line. So those are really actually getting good predictions into it as we move downward to the right. The outside was to then they are getting under predicted. Okay so let's set up house value was around 100 day but we are predicting it around 70K or something or like it is getting like slightly under predicted. And if you are going to the left hand side of the line then we are over predicting that house. So tell me one one or next thing you know what will you try to achieve with real life under prediction or work. I believe over prediction not under prediction because every time what happens like see everything is related to a 10.2 day money right. So the amount is the only right for each and every business. So if I am predicting something for let's say in the days after also I try to predict a slightly higher so that I can make a little more. All is not realistic but like even if I have to fall in some cases the ideal is scenario to be false like the over not under right. So this is the thing but at this point of time in this line if you see or to interpret the entire data we'll see that this spread like this distance from these to point this entire spread shouldn't be like very broad right. It should be as close as to the line as possible so that like even if we are over predicting a slightly over predicting and even if we are under predicting a slightly under very big it is not very much under predicting or too much over predicting or not. So yeah now these are like the real quotients not not something really will be great but yeah maybe that's it. You have a variety of what is super-wide and what is unsupervised right. Super-wide we have the labor because it's unsupervised just we have the target to work only what we do. I think there are a lot of techniques on and the point of regression and one classification that are also like you guys have to go really good. And why would we split the data and move to the end of this. This is something which is like they keep on us. So what has happened like nowadays if you give correct answer in interview and I'm talking about like some good level of interviews. Give correct answer that again it depends on the interviewer but they'll ask like on like follow questions on top of it until you get it wrong. So that's the typical like Indian tendency to be into it like if you're like getting answered like three more four questions like correctly one after the other interview like okay you are getting like two clothes now I'll test your patients and like I'll take up like some hard questions on top of you and then see like how you lose. You go to it so generally if you're trying to answer the question I suggest like answer it very like to size them so. For example, if I'm trying to read the test is to do it don't answer like we need 80% and 20% don't don't say that. Just say that we cannot use like testing period for the same period is like going into the examination on the same sort of question because I have to practice it. Let them ask the other question like don't go like don't ever show you the best at the very first moment if he's going into the very first moment if you say it is written again he'll ask like by it will be like by my son. They will start it. They start it only take 50 50 then at that one of time he last like by 50 50 is not by the way. Then you have to go back and say that no experience time is less than 50 experience time is more than 80% that's it again. Again they keep on really one opportunity so try to be accurate and very precise in the what I'm going to do is have to ask if he's going into the test then you start to the test. Don't make him go into the test. Now what is the difference between the training and the two whether that part we have also like this bus at this event we know that there is actually a certain but we don't really care about the training level and the smart of that. So by that we just report the training accuracy. I mean the same time I mean don't care about the training error so why don't we care about the accuracy of the training. So this is the trap not a kind of a trap so 99% on the data I trade on measures memory not learning it is nothing about the tomorrow. So what is happening is someone asked you to try test describe you say that I try to give my model a lot of experience but no matter what model experience I give you it it is always that my model is going to test on a unseen data. So no matter what if I it's good if I train the model for like five years and like ask them to predict it maybe it's a problem but still what he the tomorrow is going to get the predictions it's still remaining to be unknown right so tomorrow's data is literally unseen by the model so cannot cannot even imagine like I was going to be here maybe the crash of me like he's able to answer all right so that is one of the thing. And yeah pretty much this is the part of the other part was where it was. So I can share my right model. With only 13 to 22 additional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .