you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you job. So, in today's class, we are going to learn about the data structure and saw the algorithms related to that data structure which powers the entire connection of routers. So we have seen that there are multiple layers, there are seven layers of network and out of those seven layers, we have the first three layers which combined are called the application layer, right. After that we have the transport layer, the network layer, adjust us. So, the first three layers as we have discussed, application layer, security, the application layer, presentation layer, right. Where we are using the protocols on the application side where we are deciding how exactly the data has to be sent so that the server is able to recognize it. All of these things happen on the software side but the actual data has to be transferred to the server or to the machines over the internet through an actual physical layer, actual physical network of routers. And this is not a linear network, right. There can be many such routers which are connected to each other, there can be many small networks in between. So your ISP is itself an internet, it's a you for example, if you are connected to your hostels Wi-Fi, all of you are connected to one single network, then that ISP, that internet service provider is having many such small networks. Some of them might be large networks like your hostels, some of them might be small networks like someone's home Wi-Fi, right. Some of them could be even larger, a company's Wi-Fi. So your ISP is going to be a very large internet which means a very large network but confined on its own and then that ISP is connected to the outer network, that ISP connects you to the internet. So this is a very, very complicated web of routers and wires and various different form of mechanisms of sending the signal, right. So it could be a copper wire, it could be the electromagnetic radiation using your Wi-Fi or it could be an optical network. In the end, so everything that happens in the application side, right. After that, once you have the packets ready, once you have the frames ready, which has the IP address of the destination, which has the port of the destination, which also has the MAC address of the next router. Then it has to be transferred to that next router and this is what we mean by routing. So in the end, the packet will be routed in the form of electrical signals through this complicated network and then it has to be transferred in a way so that it can be connected as less amount of time as possible. Sometimes that time is going to depend on how many links we have to cross. For example, in this path, let's say we are starting from here, we are crossing five links. But if let's say these are also joined, we will be crossing lesser number of links. So sometimes it's going to be number of hops that it makes in order to reach to the final destination. Sometimes the number of hops might not be relevant. The traffic might be relevant. It's possible that this shortest path is completely blocked because there is some data transfer already going on. So in that case, a longer path is going to be much more faster. So this is where these algorithms that we are going to learn, this data structure that we are going to learn is going to help us. So the data structure, as you all already know, is graph. Now how many of you have already studied graph? I would hope that all of you have had some exposure of graph in your discrete mit scores. Yes or no? You have seen what is a graph in your discrete mit score. So what exactly is a graph? Can you guys quickly write down a very small definition in the chat? One line. Guys, I am really sorry I will keep coughing throughout the session. So I am sorry about that. Collection of nodes and connected using edges. It is a very, very important thing. So forget about the data right now graph in general. Graph need not always stored data. Graph is nothing but a network of nodes and edges. Interconnected nodes that is very, very precise. So you can say graph is nothing but a network. So this is a really, this term network is sufficient for us to define the graph. What exactly is a network? A network is nothing but a connection of nodes through edges. So interconnected nodes are a connection of nodes and edges that is called a graph or a network. There exactly have you seen these type of structures where there are nodes which are connected to with edges. We discussed in the last class that you have already seen some of these graphical structures in DSA classes. So you have studied about a data structure called linked list. Now in linked list you have these nodes which are connected to each other in a very specific way. In a linked linked list does not provide you flexibility of nodes being connected to multiple nodes or nodes being connected to random nodes. Link list has a fixed rule which says that every node is connected to one single node and one node is reachable from one node. So this is also a graph. This is a very specific type of graph because there are nodes they are connected. Similarly, you have seen another data structure which is binary trees. Now binary tree is also going to be a graph because you have nodes and these nodes again are connected to each other and again this binary tree structure is also a very specific type of graph because every node is going to have at max two nodes coming out of it. It cannot have more than two nodes coming out of it. So it is a graph but a very specific type of graph. Is that making sense to everyone? Now where else have you seen a graph other than data structure where else have you seen this type of a structure where you have nodes which are connected to each other? The DOM web very good. So the DOM of any website is nothing but a graph. It is also nothing but a tree itself. It's trees a graph hence DOM is also a graph. And this is the reason why. So has it ever happened with you that while designing the front end sometimes when you apply a CSS property it works. Sometimes it does not work and then you have to enforce it or you have to apply it at multiple places then it starts working. Has it ever happened with you? So the reason for that is that DOM is also a hierarchical structure. If you have applied some property on this node but that property is conflicting with this node then it will not work. So you will have to ensure that you are applying that property in the right node. So you have the HTML tag then inside that you have other different tags. So every tag is going to be inside some tag. So for example, you have HTML then you can have body. Let's say you have a P. Now this closes now something is going to be inside this then something can be inside that. So in the end it is nothing but a hierarchy of these tags. So you have to ensure that you are applying that property at the correct position. If you apply it at the correct node then it will work. So DOM is one example. What else is a graph? Trees are also graphed. Yes, we just discussed trees binary trees right. Would schema in DBMS count as graph? Yes. Absolutely. DBMS schema database schema is also a graph because so in relational databases these databases are called relational. Why relational because you have tables which are related to each other right. You can have let's say if you take an example you may have a student table then you may have a course table. You may have a instructor table. Now which student has opted for which course where do we store that information? Do we create one single large table in which we keep the student name, the course name, student number, course ID etc. No right. We want to keep the data in a normalized way. So in order to do that what we are going to do is we are going to create a relation between student and course and we will call it let's say the student course table and in this table we are going to keep the information of which student has opted for which course and any metadata related to that will also be stored here. Student might have received some marks, some grades right. They must be some specific term in which the student has been that course all that metadata also becomes part of this table. So this table is serving as a relation between student and course and every relation in a relational database is going to have a cardinality. For example in this case this is a n is to n relationship because one student can opt in for multiple courses and one course can also be opt in by multiple students. So this is also nothing but a graph right. Similarly instructors are going to teach the course instructors are going to teach the student. So there will be different tables to store these relationships as well right. For example instructor course can be another table which is keeping the relation between instructor and courses. So RDBMS, the schema of your relational database management system is also going to be a graph. What else? So when you say data means that is only true for relational databases because we also have non-relational databases where having these type of relationships might not be necessary. So in that that is where this R is very important here. What else is a graph? Where else do you see a graph in your day to day computer usage? Worldwide web yes the worldwide web all the websites are connected to each other right. So websites have links to other websites. For example if you open the Wikipedia page any Wikipedia page it will have hundreds of links. You open one link you can go to other links and so on. So those web pages then become the nodes and those links that are connected different web pages they are the edges. What else? There are various Google maps yes Google maps is a graph. Any type of map is a graph right. And when you say map we can say all type of roadway networks all type of wheelway network all type of flight networks right all type of other entities which are connecting things in a physical world for example your water pipeline gas pipeline electricity wires all of these things are nothing but graphs. So you have the electric network the water pipeline you have the gas pipeline right you have the roadway network you have the railways then the flight network all of these are examples of graphs. What else? File management system very good. So in your computer if you are using windows then you must be having a my computer inside which you would be having some drives seed drive D drive E drive then inside every single drive you can have a number of folders inside every folder you can have files. So that also is a structure very similar to a binary traces that it is not binary you can have many folders inside one folder right but it is a form of tree. Will neural network be considered as a graph? Yes absolutely neural network is also a graph and the actual biological neural network is literally a graph because it is a connection of neurons. So every single in every single domain some of the most important entities that we use that we see are modeled or can be modeled as graph. In fact as I mentioned earlier once you learn graph then you will be able to model a lot of different type of problems as a graph problem as a graph traversal problem or as a problem where you have to find the shortest distance okay does that make sense to everyone. So is the idea of graph making sense? Graph is not something that is just limited to data structures it is one of the most widely used data structure because majority of the actual entities the real world tangible entities can be modeled as a graph and once you start looking at things as graph then you can apply these algorithms you can use these algorithms in order to solve a lot of complicated problems. Another example of graph which should have come from you is the social media networks. What you who are present on the social media network are the nodes and the connections are the edges. So everyone give me a quick thumbs up if the idea of graph makes sense to you. Now if I take an example of social media right let me take two different social media networks. Let's take LinkedIn and Instagram. There is a profile on LinkedIn and there is another profile on LinkedIn. So there are let's say these two profiles on LinkedIn and same happens on Instagram as well same people are also present on Instagram. Now in LinkedIn if this person A wants to get connected with person B what will they have to do? They will have to send a request and then B will accept the request. Once B accepts the request both A and B are connected to each other. Correct? A is a friend of B, B is a friend of A. A is connected to B, B is also connected to it. But is the exact same thing true in case of Instagram as well? Yes or no? In LinkedIn, so for example if you send me a request and I accept it both of us are connected to each other. If you send a request to let's say Elon Musk and if he accepts it, your disconnection he is also your connection but is the same thing true in case of Instagram or in case of X, Twitter? No. If A follows B does not necessarily mean that B also follows A. B will have to follow A separately. There are two different actions which will have to be performed. A following B only means that A follows B. Does not mean that B also follows it. Do you see the difference in the connection? Suppose there are two cities. Have you ever seen that at least you might have seen these types of roads in electronic city. A lot of roads in electronic city are one way roads. What do we mean by one way roads? One way road means you can only move in one single direction. So for example if this is a road between these two, if it is a one way road then you won't be able to, you will not be allowed to move in the other direction. However, majority of our roads are two way which means you can move in both the direction without an issue. But there are few roads which are one way roads. So this relation basically the Instagram relation is something very similar to a one way road where you can only move in one single direction. So this road is very similar to LinkedIn if A is connected to B, B is also connected to A. This is not the same case. If this city A is connected to B which means you can go from A to B does it mean that you can also go from B to A not necessarily. There has to be a different path which exists. If there is a separate path which takes you from B to A then we can say that yes B to A is possible otherwise not. So these type of graphs are called undirected graph and these type of graphs are called directed graph. Directed graphs are going to have edges with a direction and you cannot move in the opposite direction of the edge. Does that make sense to everyone? Quick thumbs up if this is making sense. This is undirected graph. This is. Okay now if let's say if I'm using graph to represent a roadway network of a city. So I have let's say few landmarks in a city and we have some edges which are going to connect these and these are roads. So this is the network that we have. We have to go from A to B. Now can you tell me what is the shortest path from A to B? Let me add the remaining nodes name as well. What is the shortest path from A to B? This is our source and this is our destination. A, C, B, all of you have the same answer. Okay. So I can see that there is only one student now two students who have given the correct answer. All the other remaining answers are incorrect. If your answer is A, C, B, it's not correct. R of and B use have given me the correct answer. R of has given assuming all to be the same rate. If I'm assuming all of them of the same length or if so we discussed that this is a roadway network right. You don't know what is the length of these roads right. So without knowing the length you can never comment on what is the shortest path. And you don't know whether we are looking for the shortest path in terms of length or in terms of time. So it's possible that this is the shortest path with respect to the length but it still takes a lot of time because the road condition is not good. So whether this is the shortest path or not it depends on what exactly we mean by shortest path. How exactly are we going to define this term shortest. Now if I tell you that we want to find the shortest path with respect to length right. What you guys have answered is shortest path with respect to number of cities or number of landmarks that will be there in the path. We may go through this path as well but more number of landmarks are going to be there. That doesn't mean that it is not the it cannot be the shortest path right. So first we'll have to define based on what parameter are we going to compare these paths. Are we comparing them with respect to the actual length. Are we comparing them with respect to the time that it takes on an average to move from here to here. Are we comparing them based on the traffic. Are we comparing them based on the road quality. Are we comparing them based on the number of cities or landmarks that we are going to cross right. Depending on that your answer will change. So that is why graphs only nodes and edges are not going to be sufficient to solve practical problems. All of you agree with that. So in a Google map if this is all what it had if this is the entire information which Google maps had then would it be able to suggest to the shortest path every single time. Knowing only the landmarks and their connections the roads the real man at work it doesn't give you the full data of figuring out what is the shortest path. You need the traffic you need the length you need at what time what is of the day what is the average duration to clear this path. So a lot of data is required which has to be stored along with the nodes and the edges is that making sense yes or no. Do all of you agree that only this data is not sufficient for us to find the shortest path from a to b. We don't know which one is the shortest path. Let me give you an example. What if the lengths are this is let's say 5 kilometer this is 150 kilometer this is 2 kilometer this is 1 kilometer this is also 1 kilometer this is 0.5 kilometer this is 30. Which is the shortest path now is a cb still the shortest path the answer is now going to change right. The shortest path now is this which earlier you might have thought as you might have tagged as the longest path but the moment I change these values your answer is now going to change the moment we define what parameter is it that we are looking for based on what parameter we are going to compare all different type of paths from a to b your answer is going to change is that making sense to everyone yes or no. So these values these parameters which are associated with these edges right can I say that this 1 kilometer is a property of this edge 150 is a property of this edge in this case it is the length we may take time as well in which case it will become the time that it takes to clear this we may take the amount of traffic that is there in that case it becomes the traffic average traffic on this route. So it is the property of this edge this parameter is called weight of the edge. So if your graph has this information added to every single edge if your graph has any extra information added to every single edge then it is called a weighted graph. And if there is no weight for example in this binary tree the moment whenever you draw a binary tree the edges are simply edges right the edges are simply a connection that is it they do not carry a specific property with them. So there is no weight associated to the edges of a binary tree or a binary system that is a unweighted or a non-weighted graph is that clear. For practical purposes we will in most of the cases the graphs are going to be weighted graphs because we will be finding shortest paths we will be finding number of connection we will be finding these type of things where some property is going to be very important and then that property becomes the weight of that edge or weight of that graph. Is that making sense or all of you with me till this point? Okay if you are with me let us now answer a very interesting thing is a social media a weighted graph for an unweighted graph. Let us take Instagram. So you are there then your friends are there all of you are connected to each other some of you are following each other some of you are not following each other right. So do you think this type of a network Instagram is a weighted we have discussed that it is a directed graph but is it also a weighted graph. Is Instagram a weighted or unmeted graph? Can be both okay. Can you elaborate? Weighted based on number of followers and following Abhishek so Abhishek is saying that it might be weighted based on number of followers and number of following. For example this guy probably is a celebrity out here everyone is following him he is not following any man but number of followers and number of following is a property of the node right. Weight on the other hand is a property of the edge. You understand the difference Abhishek? Weight is not the property of a node. Weight is a property of edge between two nodes. So my question is that is this Instagram where the edges means someone is following someone is is that a weighted graph or a unmeted graph. Yes, are you able to elaborate what you mean by frequency? And more what is cost of connection? Yes that is absolutely correct are very good. Yes that is correct. Shivin, can you tell me whether Instagram is weighted graph or an unmeted graph? Amitant Shu, can you elaborate? Okay, Shivin, can you elaborate on why? Why do you think so? Okay, so let me ask you a question. How many followers or how many profiles you guys are following at this point of time? Some hundreds, 200, 300, 400, 500, how many profiles are you following? Not your followers but how many are you following? 500 plus 200 plus. Can I assume most of you would be having at least 150 plus profiles you are following? You may have thumbs up if that is correct. And what I'm going to tell you is not just true for Instagram but it's also true for any other type of social media network be it a directed or a uncharacter network be it Instagram, Twitter or be it something like Facebook or LinkedIn. You have these many followers but every single time whenever you open your homepage you're able to see the news feed from 10 or probably 15 or 20 profiles at max. You're following 500 people. Out of them it shows you the updates, the posts, the reels from selected 10 to 20 profiles. There are and same happens with stories as well. You don't see every one's story. You are not going to see stories of all 500 people or if you put effort you will definitely be able to do that but Instagram will show you stories of top 10 or 20 profiles upfront. Every single time when you open your phone you see the story of the same person and then you browse through 10, 15 stories you get bold and then you end it. Yes or no? How is it happening that you are following 500 people? You're following 500 profiles but Instagram is selectively showing you updates from the exact same 10, 20, 25 profiles. That 10, 20 profiles Instagram is selecting. They are coming from whatever is the weight of this edge which defines your relationship with them. If there is a profile which is making certain posts and you're interacting with them, you're engaging with them, then your relationship is going to grow with them. Internally they are maintaining some weight that weight will be affected by how many times you visit their profile, how many times you interact with them, you engage with them, you message them, you watch their rails, you share their posts. The more weight this edge gains, the more is the likelihood of seeing their posts. It's possible that they are not putting any new posts. It will show you their older posts because your likelihood of engaging with their posts is higher. So in order to optimize for more engagement, that is what Instagram wants. Instagram wants users to be engaged in the application, to continuously keep watching rails and keep engaging, keep making comments, keep liking others' posts. So they want to show posts where the likelihood of engagement is the highest. So they are not going to show you any irrelevant posts and how exactly do they figure out which profiles by maintaining a weight. And that is why this graph is not an unweighted graph. This Instagram or any other type of social media network is a weighted graph. It is always and always going to be a weighted graph. Same happens in LinkedIn, same happens in Facebook, same happens in Twitter, same happens in every single type of social media network. In LinkedIn also, every single time when you open your new speed, you will see updates from the same set of people. Unless you open someone's profile and start interacting with it purposefully, they are not going to show in your profile. So social media network in general is a weighted network. Is everyone clear? Okay, super. So if the concept of graph makes sense to you, then in the end, what we'll have to do is, we will have to store all of this in the memory in some form so that we can, so if let's say you're building something like a Google map, you need to store all of these nodes, you need to store all of these weights so that you can quickly load everything in your main memory and then you can apply whichever algorithm you want to apply here. So it has to be stored. There has to be a way of storing this entire data enough way so that it is very easily accessible. How do you think we should be storing a graph? Can we store it in an array? Can we store it in, let's say a matrix or do we need a different type of data structure as we had in case of a binary tree while discussing binary trees, we created a different type of data structure, right? So how do we store this? Shiven is saying recommendation engines were converted graph some post slots are reserved for new and unwashed content to build users preference better but most of them are based on what the user has been doing actively or what is most relevant. Yes, that is correct. Shiven, in fact we will be building a recommendation engine in one of the course in your ML, I think in advance ML course. A new data structure, something like matrix nodes and edges, right? So binary tree is also a graph, right? How did we store a binary tree? Do you guys remember? In order to store a binary tree, we created a class, right? We created our own data structure and we said that every single node is going to have two things or in fact three things associated to it. What are the three things that we want every single node to have? Every node is going to have certain data, right? So let's create a class, three node. In this class three node, we had some data and that data would be anything, it can be string, it can be double, it can be an object of our own user defined class, it can be anything, right? But just for simplicity, let's keep it as an integer because majority of our problems also had it as an integer. So we have a data and then we don't keep these two nodes. What we keep are the pointers to these two nodes, the references to these nodes. So we have reference to the left one and we call it left for obvious reason and we have reference to the right node. Now how exactly a graph, a generic graph is different from binary tree. In a binary tree, it is guaranteed that a node cannot have more than two children and that is why having two references is sufficient. But in a graph, what may happen is that you have a node and it is connected to multiple such similar nodes, right? A graph could have this type of a structure. So you don't know what is the number of nodes any node can be connected with, right? It's possible that one of the nodes is connected to multiple nodes, other node is connected to only one of them. There is another node which is connected to two nodes, right? So a graph does not have a defined structure. A binary tree has a very well defined structure. There are rules and those rules cannot be broken in graph, in a generic graph. Binary tree is also a graph but a very specific constrained graph. A generic graph does not have any such rule, right? You can have these two nodes connected to each other. These type of connections are possible. This connection is possible. This connection is possible. In fact, you can have nodes which are not connected to each other. You can have clusters of nodes which are connected to each other in silos. So you may have this node, this node and another node and these three nodes let's say are connected to each other but not connected to the remaining part of the graph. But this entire thing, all of this is one single graph. This still is one single graph. This is not a collection of graphs. So in a graph, it is not necessary that all the nodes are going to be connected. It is not necessary that the connections will always be in one single direction as in the case of binary tree. It is not necessary that all the nodes have to have at least one edge. There can be nodes which are just there without any edge. That's it. You can have these type of nodes as well and this entire structure is one single graph. So if we want to have a class for a graph node, we definitely cannot have named references for every single node that is connected because we don't really know how many nodes will be connected to every single node. So when you don't know how many entities will be there, how do you store the data? If you know that there are only two nodes, then you know that okay, I have to take two variables in which I can store it. If you know that okay, it's a turnery tree, the interval will always be at max three children. So you could have had another variable for storing the third child. If you know that it's going to be let's say a tree where a node is always going to have 50 children. You can have an array of size 50. But when you don't know how many connections are going to be there. So in that case, how do you store it? In a list of pointers pointing to the neighbors of the node that are directly connected to the node itself. Correct, absolutely correct. So what we can do is we can have a class, we can have a class called graph node. And in this we can have the data whatever data the node is going to store. And then since we don't know how many connections are there, we cannot have individual variables. We cannot have an array of of a fixed size, but we can definitely have an array list. We can definitely have an array list of graph nodes. And let's call it nodes on neighbors. This is one way of representing the graph. Does this make sense to everyone? Now, imagine in case of a binary tree or let's go back to linked list. In case of a linked list, also we have a very similar structure. We have a node which has some data in which has the reference of the next node. If you want to iterate over the entire linked list, how many nodes do you need? You want to iterate over the entire linked list. How many nodes will be needed for that? As an input, how many nodes are required? It's one single node, right? Which is the head node. You need the head node. If I give you the reference of the head node, that is sufficient for you. So I iterate over the entire linked list. That is sufficient for you to reverse this linked list, to shuffle this linked list, to do anything that you want to do with this linked list. In fact, in all the problems that you have solved related to linked list, that is what you have done. You were given only the head node and you were able to solve some very complicated problems of linked list using that. Similarly, if you want to do anything, if you simply want to let's iterate over all the nodes of a binary tree, how many nodes do you need as an input? One node again, which one? The root node, correct? All of you agree. If I give you the root node, that is sufficient for you to iterate over all the nodes present inside this tree. Is that making sense? Yes or no? One single node is sufficient. Every single question of binary trees that you have solved. You were only and only given one single node, which was the root node. Using this, you can iterate, you can do horizontal traversal, you can do a vertical traversal, you can do a zigzag traversal, you can do pre-order, post-order, inorder, you can shuffle it, you can invert it, you can convert it to a linked list. Whatever you want to do, you can do that just by having access to one single node. Now, if you want to iterate over all the nodes of a graph, how many nodes do you need? Central node, what do we mean by a central node? Which node should be called a central node here? Let me, any single node is enough, okay? Let me take an example. What if I give you this node of this graph? Is it sufficient for you to iterate over all the other nodes of this graph? Is this node sufficient? Using this node, I can probably iterate over this part of the graph. But all of this will still remain unvisited. By analogy of Google Maps, we can have any source or destination, even both of them lie in a closed section of graph or they may only be connected to each other, hence all of them, any one node of all the component, okay? Maybe possibly only one order. Okay, so do all of you agree that we will need at least one node from this part, this node, this node, and at least one node from this part. In this case, these four nodes, minimum four nodes are required in order to iterate over all the nodes of this graph. Yes or no? What if we reduce the sizes of these connected components? What if there are more unconnected nodes? In the worst case, can I say that I will need all the nodes of the graph if I want to traverse them? One single node is not sufficient by design, right? This is a generic graph, in a generic graph, one single node is not sufficient for us to iterate over all the other nodes and all the edges. We need, in the worst case, we need all the nodes, we need all the edges, only then we will be able to iterate over it. That is the reason why this type of representation, it does not practically work. It works in the cases. So this, what this representation is giving us is, we are able to represent all of these nodes as a graph node object. And when you go to one object, you will be able to find all the connections through this. But if in the end you want all of them, then you need a way to store all the nodes so that you can access all of them or any of them whichever is needed. So a better way of storing the data in the same format would be a HashMap. Instead of creating a separate class called graph node, what if we create a HashMap? And in this HashMap, the key is going to be the node and the value is going to be this list which is connected to the nodes, list of neighbors. Does this make sense to all of you? Yes or no? So let us actually try to build this type of a structure. Let us name them. So we have this node called A which is not connected to anything which means we are going to get a list which is going to be empty. Then we have B, B is connected to C and D, then we have C which is connected to B and D, then we have D that is connected to B and C. Then you have E again not connected to anything F is connected to J and M, then you have G which is connected to I and H and so on. Does this representation make sense to all of you? If you are storing the graph like a HashMap in this format, you get access to all the nodes and with every node as a value in order one time, you can fetch all the other connected nodes as well. Is everyone clear? Guys, quick thumbs up if this representation is making sense. This is nothing but a HashMap. A HashMap of node N, list of nodes which are the neighbors of that particular node. This particular representation is known as adjacency list. Now, this is a error list. Instead of this, it could be a linked list as well if you want to use the space very precisely. Sometimes we will be using a linked list in case of a instead of an error list. But in majority of the times, an error list is good enough because the spacing is dynamic in nature, you can add, you can remove all of the and you can iterate over it very easily. You can have a random axis in order one time. Does that make sense? Okay. So now I have a question for all of you. Given a graph stored in this format, do not write your answers on chat. I will be launching a quiz for this. You have a graph given in this format, you are given a source node and a destination node and you have to tell what is, or you have to simply tell whether there is a connection between them or not. And then you have to tell me what will be the time complexity of that. ... is Is this screen visible. Is it visible now? Is the answer that was marked in the quiz? N square. Okay. All right. Okay. So, let's try to understand. The question is that we are given two nodes. Right. Those two nodes could be anything. Let's say the node is a and b. And we have to check whether they are directly connected or not. How do we check whether they are directly connected? And look up in the hash map with any of these two as the key. We can fetch the list. So, let's say you go here, you go to a, then you fetch the list. And then you search for b in this list. So, what will be the time complexity of searching a node in a list? That should be proportional to the length of the list. Right. All of you agree with this. So, what we are going to do is first we are going to do a hash map look up, which is order one time complexity. Then we have to search for the other node in the list that we have fetched from the hash map. In the worst case, how many elements can be there in this list? In the worst case, the node could be connected to every single node present in the graph. So, that means in the worst case, we might have to iterate over all the other nodes present in the graph. So, that is why this is going to be order of n. And in this case is the number of nodes that we have. Does this make sense to everyone? So, now going forward, what we will be doing is we will not be using this n in case of graphs, because graph has two different entities, right. So, n becomes confusing. Sometimes the iterations will be proportional to number of nodes. Sometimes the iterations might be proportional to number of edges. And number of edges will be much more than the number of nodes. So, that is why we will use different variables going forward. We will use e for v for number of nodes. And we will be using e for number of edges. So, this time complexity is going to be order of v, which is number of nodes present in the graph. Is that clear to everyone? So, you do not need to worry if you got it wrong because it was marked as n square. But this is, anyway, is not going to add up to your source or no need to worry. Now, this makes sense. You have two nodes and you have to simply check whether they are connected or not. This is a kind of operation which is going to be very frequent in a lot of cases, right. In a lot of problems that we are going to solve, this type of operation is going to be something which will be checking multiple times. So, order v time complexity every time iterating over list of nodes is going to be highly unoptimal. So, if this is going to be the primary use case, do you think this type of way of storing the graph is an optimal way? Or can we further optimize it? Correct. If this is our primary use case, in that case, instead of using an adjacency list, we can use adjacency matrix. What we can do is we can have a matrix structure where every cell, every i comma j, tells us whether there is a connection between node i and node j or not. Suppose this is the matrix that we have. And these are the nodes that we have a, b, c. It has to be a square matrix because number of rows will have to be equals to number of columns. Now, every i comma j cell tells us whether there is a edge between them or not. So, let's create a small graph here. So, let's assume a and e are connected, d and e are connected, e and c are connected, b and d are also connected. So, this is the graph that we have. So, this matrix, if it is an unweighted graph, in that case, it can simply be a Boolean matrix, where two represent that the two nodes are connected. So, in this case, a and e are connected, then a and c are connected, then you have b and d connected, then you have c, a and c, e. Then you have d e and d b, d e and d b. And finally, you have e, c, e, a and e, e, e, c and e, e. So, this is the type of representation that can help us figure out whether two nodes are connected or not. And we can do this in order one time complexity now. Is this making sense to everyone? Yes or no? Now, if the graph is a directed, if the graph is an undirected graph, then you can see that this has to be a symmetric matrix, right. Because if a c exists, c a also exists. Is that clear? If a e exists, e a also exists. So, it has to be a symmetric matrix, if it is a undirected graph, whereas if it is a directed graph, then it may or may not be a symmetric matrix. It is not necessary that it will be a symmetric matrix. So, for example, if this connection is like this, then a is not connected to e. So, this will be removed. This will then become false. A is connected to c. Now, c is not connected to a. So, this will become false, right. So, here this is false. C a is also false. Similarly, you can have bi-directional connection as well, which means that there is an edge from d to b. And there is another edge from b to d. In this case, both of them are going to be there. Similarly, c, e is connected to c. So, e and c stays there, but c and e will now be turned to false. So, depends, the structure of the matrix is going to depend on whether the graph is undirected or directed. Similarly, if the graph is a weighted graph, in that case, instead of having this as a Boolean matrix, we can simply store the weights of all of these edges, right. So, if this was a weighted graph, let us say some weights are here. In that case, instead of having these, so a to c is 20, a to e is 30, then b to d is 25. C to e is 50. D to e is 50. So, in that case, this is going to be the, these are going to be the values that we are going to store in the matrix. Does this make sense? Yes or no? This is undirected. So, now, given any type of represented, in a lot of questions that you are going to solve, you will be given graphs. So, for example, in a lot of three questions you were given, tree and a lot of linked list questions you were given, linked list. In linked list, you were always given the head load, entry, you were always given the root node. In case of a graph, you will either be given this matrix or you will be given this hash map of adjacency list. Okay. Given any type of representation, will you be able to iterate over all the nodes present in the graph? Yes or no? My question is, will you be able to iterate over these nodes? If I give you this adjacency list representation and ask you to print all the nodes, not their connections, just the nodes. Or if I give you this type of a matrix and ask you to simply print all the, in all of you be able to do that? Yes. In majority of the questions, if you are given a link matrix, then the nodes will be represented by the index, simply the indexes. In case of a hash map, you may have various different type of names for the nodes. Names could be characters, integers or names could also be strings, unique strings. So, now the form in which the graph is being stored, that is going to be, that that should not impact your understanding of the algorithms that we are going to learn. In every single algorithm that we are going to learn, we will be accessing the nodes and then we will be accessing the neighboring nodes. If it is a adjacency list, then to access the neighboring nodes, we need to access, we need to use the get function of the hash map. And we will fetch the entire list of all the neighbors and then we will iterate over it. If it is a matrix representation, then we will go to that specific index and we will iterate over this row present in the matrix in order to find all the neighbors of this specific node. Does that make sense to everyone? Okay, super. So now let us solve a question. You are given a graph and a source, let us call it s, and a destination. Let us call it d. You have to check if there is a path from s to d. Now again, you have to think about the approach the algorithm. Interpretation and the limit arrival of science. We are given do-tons that may be so grand as in, they may be so much. You may really find the週 here but that means that a number of different resolutions, such as the training training about cloud harmonic wave, the consistently confirmed variables, able to convert one representation to other very easily right. If you can iterate over all the nodes and if you can fetch their corresponding neighbors you can easily create a matrix out of it or you can easily create a adjacency list out of the matrix. So, representation of the graph after this point becomes agnostic of any algorithms that we are going to discuss. Does that make sense? Basically, graph algorithms are agnostic of how the graph is being stored. Okay, so this is the problem that you have. You are given a graph. Let's consider this graph. And you have to find you have to check whether there exists a path path from a given node to another node or not. For example, if let's say your source is sources f and your destination is g. What should be the answer? Should the answer be yes or no? So, is there a path from f to g? We are not looking for a direct edge only this time. We are looking for a path. So, start from f you go to m, you go to i, you go to g. In fact, there are multiple different paths that you can take. So, there exist one or more path. So, the answer here should be similarly, if your source is b, your destination is g. Now, what should be the answer? Is there a path from b to g? No. So, the answer should be false. Okay. How do we solve this question? You can simply give your idea, your approach. Now, what you'll have to do is you'll simply have to the only thing that you need to do right now is articulate your approach in the right way and write it in words. Okay. Vium, can you articulate it in words? Yes. Abhishek, that is correct. Very good. So, what you'll have to do is you'll have to be able to do it in words. So, what you'll have to do is you'll have to be able to do it in words. Okay. We can just check for the source node to be present as the key and check if the list corresponding to the key, whether it contains the destination. So, in this case, let us take the adjacency list of f. Right. Adjacency list of f is going to have m and j. The destination is g. It is not present in it. Right. Is g here? The answer is no. So, your approach is going to return false, but the answer is supposed to be true. Why? Because there exists a path in this graph that takes you from f to say, it's not a direct path. It goes through multiple nodes. And if there are multiple nodes involved, then this approach will not work. Yes. Vium, I'm asking, can you articulate that approach? What? How exactly are we going to implement it? Yes. Tushar, very good. That is correct. Okay. User is saying 90 f upon is greater than or equals to p dash o m l g. User, that will not work. Correct. Manus, that is absolutely correct. Okay. Very good. I already have a lot of correct approaches. And I can see that almost all of you who have sent the approaches are in the right direction. What are we looking for right now? So, we have a source. We have a destination. We want to see whether there is a path, right, which can connect source to the destination. In this process, it is possible that we may have to explore all possible nodes present in the graph, which means so, imagine if we had a way of iterating over all the nodes, then we could have done this very easily. All of you agree? If we had a way of starting from a source and then iterating over all the nodes that are reachable from this, then we can simply do this and we can check whether the destination is one of those nodes or not. So, what we are looking for is an approach using which we start from a source node. And we iterate over, we are allowed to iterate over all the nodes that are reachable from here. Have you already done something very similar to this in binary trees? If I give you a node, if I give you a root node, can you iterate over all the nodes that are reachable from the root node? Yes or no? Yes or no? How can you do that? Let us let us for a moment, let us assume that this graph is always going to be a binary tree. In a binary tree, how do you solve the exact same problem? You have a binary tree and you have two nodes, source and destination. You have to check whether the destination can be reached from source or not. How do you solve it? Can all of you solve this question if it is a regular binary tree instead of a graph? Yes or no? If yes, then how? correct. Okay, very good. I can see some correct approaches there. So, suppose you are given B as the source node. So, your source here is B and your destination is H. Is there a path that exists from B to H? Binary tree by the way is a directed graph, right? If B is connected to D, it does not mean that D is also connected to B. You can move from B to D. You can go from parent to child, but you cannot come back to a parent from the child. So, B to H is this path possible? Yes, it is possible, right? If I give you sources D, destination is C, is this possible? Is D to C possible? Not possible, because if you are not given the root node, you are only given this as the source node. There is no way you can reach this node because you cannot go back to a parent node if you earlier did not have this reference. So, this one is going to be false. How do we solve this? You can simply use any type of traversal mechanism. You can use a pre-order, you can use a post-order, you can use a in-order, you can use a level order. What you have to check here is whether the current node is equal to the destination node or not. The moment current node becomes equal to destination, you can return true. So, let me write a code for this. So, let us write a pre-order traversal code. We are taking the root node. Re-order map, first we are checking if and we also need the destination with which we are going to compare it. If the root is already equal to destination, then we are going to return true. This becomes over base case. If this is not the case, then we are going to simply return. We are going to try to find this either on the left side or on the right side. So, re-order root dot left destination or pre-order of root dot right. What should be the base case? The base case should be that if we have reached the null, that means we were unable to find it. So, in that case we are going to return false. So, if your root has already become null, that means we were unable to find this. So, then we can return false. That is it. So, if you agree with this, give me a quick thumbs up if this code is making sense. Now, I have written a pre-order. However, you can write a very similar code using post-order. You can write a very similar code using in order or you can also write a very similar code using level order traversal. In fact, there are three ways, four ways you can solve this problem. You can solve this using a level order or you can solve it using a pre-post or in order. In all of these, what you have to do is you have to just take the source node as a root node, start the iteration. The moment you find the destination node, you return true otherwise, you continue your search and if you get the null node, then you return false. That's it. So, are all of you clear with all these four traversals of binary tree? Yes or no? Okay. Okay. If you're clear with this, then let's also do a very quick drive-in. Okay. So, if let's say we are using a pre-order traversal and the source is A, the destination is let's say I. Source is A or let's say the destination is E. How exactly is this code going to function? Because if you understand that, then what we are going to learn next is going to be super easy for you. So, we are starting from the root node or the source node. Source in this case coincidentially same as the root node. We are checking whether this itself is first of all equals to null or not. It's not, then we check whether it's same as the destination that's also not true. So, then what we are going to do is we are going to first trigger a function call on the left side. So, now we are waiting for the left side function called to return us some answer. If that answer is true, then it will simply return because we are using a NOR. This will will not even be triggered. If this answer is false, then we are going to give a call to the right side to return. So, in this case, we give this call here. Now, this becomes the next root. We check whether this is null or not. It is not null. We check if it is equals to the destination. It's not equals to the destination. So, we again do the same thing. We check for the next left. Then we check whether this is null, no, whether this is destination, no. So, we again proceed in the recursion. We again check is this null, no, is this destination, no. So, we again move towards the next call. This one is null. If it is null, it is going to return you back of false. If root is null, return false. So, it gets a false from here. This returns false. Hence, the second function call will also be triggered. So, this is also going to call null, which will again return a false. Both of them are going to return false, false and false, false or false becomes false, which means this, which is pairing returns false. First function call has returned false. That means, now the second function call will trigger, which is going to go towards the right side in the exact same way. This is also going to return false, false or false again false. So, this also gets a false from the left function call. It will have to trigger a function on the right side. So, now it checks e, is it null, no, is it the destination? The answer is yes. The moment we see that it is destination, no further recursion calls are going to be triggered. We are simply going to return true from here. So, this is going to return true and true or false becomes true. So, this also returns true. Since one of the function call has already returned true, further function call will not be triggered. This is going to return true. It is everyone clear with how this preorder functions. It is everyone clear with this dry run of preorder traversal. Now, interesting thing here is that you can see that this preorder traversal, it explores all these nodes in a very specific manner, in a very specific order. The order is always that it goes left, left, left, left until it hits a leaf node. Right? Until it hits a dead end, then it comes back, then it hits another dead end, then it comes back, then it tries to hit another dead end. So, it is exploring all the leaf nodes one by one. In other words, we can say that it is moving, it is going all the depth, one by all of these are the, we can say it is going till the entire depth of the stream. Does that make sense to all of you? Entire depth here is explored, entire depth here of this path is explored, then the entire depth of this path and then the entire depth of this path. And is it only true for preorder traversal? What about inorder and postorder? Does not matter. It does not matter whether you are using preorder or postorder or inorder. All three three traversals are going to explore the nodes one depth at a time. The ordering in which the nodes are being visited, that will change. The ordering in which the nodes are being processed, that will change. But the nodes will be visited one depth at a time, is that making sense to everyone. These three all three traversals, they are not going to visit two nodes of the same level at the same time. They are always going to proceed linearly. Once they hit a dead end, they will come back, visit another path, once they hit another dead end, come back, visit another path and so on. This is going to be the, the any of these three recursive creator of a cell is going to visit the nodes of the tree. Quick thumbs up if this is making sense. If this is clear to you, you are already aware of an algorithm that can be used in any type of graph. And this algorithm is called a depth first search or DFS. All of these preorder, postorder, inorder are ways of doing a DFS over a binary tree. Depth first search, it will always going to go in, till a dead end and then it will come back and then it will try to explore a different path. So how do we do the exact same thing? In this case, you have a generic graph. How do you do a depth first search for a generic graph? What will change? By the way, do all of you agree that preorder, postorder and inorder that are exactly the same, the only difference there is the ordering in which we are processing the nodes. In preorder, you are processing the nodes before the recursive calls. In order, you will be processing the node here in between the recursive calls and in postorder, you will be processing the node here. But the order in which you are applying the recursion is exactly the same in all three. First, left, then right. Clear? So now the question is, how do we apply the exact same algorithm over this structure? Is it same as tree? No, definitely not. Is it similar to this tree? Yes. So whatever is your source node, you start from there. Okay, let's try to write a generic DFS. What are we doing here? We are first checking for the base cases. Actually, let's forget about the base case for now. We are first checking whether we have found the destination or not. So we have a node or let's call it the source node and we have the destination node. So what we are going to do is we are first checking if source is same as destination. If that is the case, then we return to. Otherwise, what do we need to do? Otherwise, we need to iterate over. Here we were iterating over left and right because the only head left and right coming out of the root node. In this case, how many nodes could be there coming out of the source node? We don't know. Could be many, right? But we can access all of them very easily. If it is a matrix, then we just have to go to that specific row. If it is a adjacency list, then we simply have to use the get query of the HashMap in order to fetch it. So what we will be doing is we are going to get the list of all the nodes, which are adjacent to the source node. So for all nodes, all nodes v in the adjacency list of source. What should we do? We have to do tfs of this v with destination. Is this making sense to everyone? So in this case, what you can do is you can maintain a variable answer, right? Or you can simply keep returning this very similar to how we did here. Return this or this. Here in this case, you have to apply this over all the nodes. If any of them returns you prove, then you are going to return it. If it is returning you false, in that case, you will continue this loop and you will continue calling this function. Is that making sense? Yes or no? Okay. However, this is not going to work. Can you figure out some or can you do one thing? All of you, this is a partially written code. This is not the complete code. This is not the correct code. Can you fix this? If you have understood what exactly has to be done, can you fix this? Is the question clear to everyone? You have to simply iterate over. You have to simply write a pre-order traversal for this graph. The only difference that is going to be there is that here we only had two connected nodes. So we were directly calling this function. Now we have a list of connected nodes. So we can fetch that list and we can iterate over all the nodes present in that list and we can call the function. Now can you complete this? There is quick thumbs up if you are working on this. Yes, there are very good, excellent. There can you come up with a fix for it? Yes, very good. Yes, every recursive function will need a base case. So, basically if the nodes are connected then it should return to otherwise, it should return false. So, one suggestion that I am getting, this is something which this was not the missing part. Let me simply write it. If this returns you true then you return true otherwise you continue. So, this is not the missing part. Even when we implement this, is it going to work correctly or not? So, one more suggestion is that after we have visited everything we can return false. When there is nothing to be visited, return false. But is it completed yet? What is the problem with this code? Yes, sir, that is correct. So, every when there is a difference between the structure of binary tree and a generic graph. Other than the number of nodes which are coming out the restriction on the number of nodes, there is another major, major difference between these two structures. What is the difference? In a binary tree or in any tree as a matter of fact, you cannot have nodes having a back connection which means that you cannot have a cycle inside a tree. Does that make sense to everyone? Since you can never have a cycle, this code is never going to lead you to a node that you have already visited. You start from root node and you keep moving in one single direction. This root node will not come back in this recursion ever. However, that is not true with this type of a structure. Let me show you what may happen in this case. Let's say we start from this node i. So, we start from i. This is the initial source node that we have and let's say the destination was supposed to be L. We check it is not true, then we are going to fetch the list. In the first element was G. So, we go to G. We apply this DFS over G. Now G is our root node. Let me check is G the destination, the answer is no. Then we again iterate over all connections of G. G is going to let's say have H as its connection, H will be there in G's list. So, H is then selected as the next root. Now you check whether H is destination, the answer is no. You fetch the list of all nodes connected to H. Which nodes are connected to H? J, G and I. Is it guaranteed that the first node will be J? No, it could be I as well. You are back to the same node from where you started. Is that making sense? Yes or no? So, now what will happen is that the next node is again I. You are again going to do the exact same thing, I, J, G, H and then again I. And now you trap inside this loop. This will continue till infinity. There is no way that this code will come out of this loop. There is no way this code knows that I has already been visited. I am not supposed to re-itrate over the same thing again and again. Is it making sense to all of you? Quick thumbs up if this problem makes sense. So, how do we solve this? How do we ensure that we are not getting stuck in this infinite loop? How do we solve it? Correct, absolutely correct, very good manners, very good. So, we need to keep a track of nodes that we have already visited. If you are keeping a track, what will happen is you start from I and you mark it as visited. If you are marking it as visited, that means now in future this will not be visited again. Then you go to G, you fetch the list of all the nodes connected to G. The first node could be I, you check I has already been visited. I am not going to trigger another recursive call from here. Then comes H, H has not been visited. So, then I can search, initiate another search. Then the next node again is I, I has already been visited. I am not going to initiate another recursion from here. I am going to pick the next node which is J. Does that make sense to everyone? Yes or no? So, in order to fix this, we need a way, we need some way of tracking this. This tracking can be done in a set, this can be done in a hash map or this can simply be done in a Boolean array. We can call it a visited array. There initially all the values are going to be false, which means all of the nodes are currently unvisited. The moment you visit a node, the first thing that you are going to do is you will mark it as visited. So, you do visited of source equals to the moment you step on a node, mark it as visited. So, that in future you are not visiting it again. And before you initiate DFS, you check whether it has been visited already or not. So, before this, we need to check that this visited has to be false. So, visited of V has to be false. This and this. Then we are going to return or true. Is everyone clear now? So, this code that you have written, it is the exact same code that you have been writing in all of your binary codes. All of your binary tree problems with just two differences. One difference that we don't just have two nodes. We have multiple nodes connected. Hence, we now need a loop. And second difference that now it is not a tree. It is a generic graph which can have cycles. And in order to ensure that we are not getting stuck in that cycle, we need to keep track of visited nodes. Is everyone clear? Quick thumps up if all of you are clear? Okay, super. Now, in your homework, what you have to do is you have to try to apply a level order traversal in order to solve the same problem. All of these were DFS, but how does a level order functions? In a level order, you visit one breath at a time. And hence the level order traversal is called BFS or breadth first search. You will need to write the exact same code as you were writing in case of binary trees. With two differences. First difference that in, so in how did you write the level order traversal code? You used to take a queue, used to insert one of the root node, then you pop it out. And then you insert the left child and then the right child. Now, you no longer have only two children. You have multiple children. So instead of q dot push, root dot left, root dot right, you are going to run a loop, push everything that is connected to that node. But before that, you check whether that node has already been visited or not. So implement level order traversal in the exact same way, but with these two changes, a loop and visited. That becomes your DFS. Okay. Is everyone clear? Okay. So we will stop here today. Next class, we will have hopefully in person. And if you have any doubts, any questions, you should come prepared with them in the next class. There will be some coding questions as well, which you will have. By the way, how have you all received your assignments of the previous classes? Yes. Okay. Okay. So we will end this class here. Next class will be the last class before we have the quiz. Right. So our quiz is going to be on 11th. So 8th is going to be the last class. So next class, we will quickly revise subneting because that is going to be an important part of your quiz. And then we'll solve one, two more problems and then we will discuss some problems on graph and DFS. Okay. Thank you, everyone. I apologize because this class has been a very in class because of all the cuffs, but use by Tuesday. Probably things will be in a better situation. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you.