you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you in market as risk and then we pick this node we iterate over all of the neighbors of the node if the neighbor is not visited then we initiate the FS from that neighbor as well does that make sense it's a no okay so let's do one thing before we discuss the code of BFS let us solve a problem and when we will do graph in DSA which will happen in property DSA 4 we will be solving a lot of problems of BFS and DFS but even in these three four classes we will have some exposure to problems on the inside so that you get used to writing these codes and you get comfortable with all these other problems okay so let's say you are given a grid of size n cross n and this grid only has two values it's a binary grid you have zeros and you have ones zeros are representing let's say water and ones are representing length you have to count the number of islands in this grid island is going to be that section of the grid which is completely surrounded by water so a section of ones connected to each other which are completely surrounded by zeros is going to be an island for example this is the grid that we have been assumed that two cells are or can be considered to be connected if they are touching each other in any of these four dimensions so two of the cells are connected if they are sharing up only okay so if this is the grid that we have how many islands do we have how many set of words do we have that are completely surrounded by zeros this one here is completely surrounded by zeros right similarly this is also a one that is completely surrounded by zero on all four directions this one so we have this as one of the island this as another island and in the context of this question we can assume this also to be an island so it has to be either surrounded by zeros from all sides or it has to be present on the edges so we have these three islands present on the grid is the question clear so the answer here in this case is going to be the interesting thing about this problem is that this problem never mentions that you have a graph given in any form in the input all you have is a matrix of zeros and these are the type of questions you can also expect in in the interviews of companies like Microsoft Amazon where these are actually graph problems but the description will never reveal that to you only if you studied it only if you have solved sufficient number of problems you will be able to recognize the pattern and solve a new problem so spend some time thinking about it if you have any approach it can raise your hand I will come to your sealed hand business ph you turn yourchester those How many of you are done? How many of you are able to identify that this is a draft problem? Good and how many of you are feeling difficult to identify or model this problem as a draft problem? Residents. Okay, good. So let us try to understand how can you model these type of problems and this is you can say a specific pattern of problems. You will find many many problems calling the exact same pattern where you will be given a grid of matrix and you will have to implement some graph algorithm in order to solve that problem. Most of the times that graph algorithm is going to be either DFS or VFS. So how do we model this type of question to a graph problem? So first of all the problem says that these blocks inside the grid they are connected in this way which means if you are on two blocks which are sharing their boundaries then that means they are connected to each other. Connected means there is an edge. So basically you can start visualizing this grid as a grid of all of these individual cells which are connected to all their neighbors right. This is exactly what we have. Does this make sense to all of you? Yes or no? This grid is nothing but a network of this type where every single node is connected to the four nodes that are sharing a boundary with that node and that is why this is a graph. So now what exactly do we need to find in this graph? We need to find how many ones are there that are connected to each other. So in this graph you are going to have some ones. So let's say these are your ones right and you have some zeros. That's as you model of these are zeros. We need to find set of ones that are connected or reachable from each other. So if I start from here I can go I can move towards this side because it is connected. So I will reach here and now there is no four one that is reachable from here. So this becomes one island that I have. Similarly if I start from here here beside I don't have a one beside I don't have a one but this side I have a one. So I can include this one and now from here if I have an un-visted one I can extend it. If I don't have then this becomes another island does that make sense to all of you? So what we have to do is nothing but what we did in the previous class. If you are able to understand that this is a graph can you implement a DFS from any of the vertex any of the cell of this matrix as a source? Let's or no. Let's take the DFS code that we had written in the last class and let's see if we can modify this code in order to solve this problem. So in the last class we were solving a different problem right we were having two different nodes and we are trying to find if there exists a path between the two nodes or not. This problem is different so we'll have to modify the code and since the input is also different we will have to change that as well. So this is the basic DFS structure that you have to follow. You need to have a visited area so that you don't step on the same cell again. Then in this case we are checking whether the node is equal to source or not this is not needed because there is no source or destination here we are going to you only need to implement DFS from any of the node as a source node. So this is not needed. All nodes that are present in the set of neighbors of this source node. How do we find the neighbors of a node in the context of this graph? If you have a cell i, j in this case a node is represented by the indices i, j. So how do we find the neighbors? Where exactly are the neighbors stored? Are they stored in an adjacency matrix or an adjacency list? Where do you have the information of the neighbors? Even what are the neighbors of a cell i, j? i plus 1. This is i, j. We have 4 neighbors right? This one is going to be i, j plus 1. This one is going to be i, j minus 1. This one is going to be i minus 1, j. This one is going to be i plus 1, j. So these are the 4 neighbors. So we already have the coordinates of all the 4 neighbors. Does that make sense? So what we have to do is we have to iterate over all of them. If they are not visited, then we have to initiate BFS from them. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So let us try to implement this DFS code. So let's write a void function because we don't have to iterate any true or false in this case. So we will simply write a void function in order to simply visit all the connected nodes from any of the source node. So we have this DFS. In the input we need this matrix. So let's say m is the matrix that we have. Then how do we keep track of whether a size has been visited or not? What type of data structure is going to be needed? In this case, we had a one dimensional array. What type of data structure should be used in this case? A two dimensional array. Does that make sense to everyone? Because every node is being identified by i and j. So we need a two dimensional array and we will call it visited. What else do we need? We need the source vertex from where we have to start this traversal. So the source vertex is going to be a pair of two index i and j. So basically we are going to start a traversal from this cell, i.e. In the moment we visit a cell, we will be marking it as listed. And then we will iterate over all the four possible neighbors. If a neighbor is one, then we will continue DFS from here. If a neighbor is not one, then we will terminate the DFS. Does that make sense? Yes or no? Okay. So what we are going to do is first thing, let's check what is the value of the neighbor. If the neighbor m of i or basically this is going to be a recursive code. So first we have to check the base conditions for i, j itself. Then we will initiate the search for the neighbors. So if this cell is a zero, in that case we do not need to do anything. We can simply return it. We basically are terminating the search change because it is zero. Or if it has already been visited, we need to terminate the search. So if this is the case or if visited of i, j is true in both the cases, we don't need to do anything. We will simply terminate the search. The function is not supposed to continue if any of these two conditions is marked. If these two are not true, which means that if i, j is one, we are currently standing on a one, which has not been visited yet. Then we will mark it as visited. So first thing that we will do is we mark this cell as visited in the exact same way as we were doing in this code, first thing we mark it as visited. Then what is the next step? I treat over all the neighbors and then initiate a DFS from all the neighbors. So we have four neighbors. We don't really need a for loop here or you can implement a for loop as well. But you can simply have four function calls with i minus one j, then i plus one j, i j minus one and i j plus one. Does this make sense? Yes or no? Is there anything that we are missing or is it correct? If index goes out of bound. What should we do if index goes out of bound? We need to terminate research. Basically whatever we are doing here, we need to do the exact same thing if we step out of the matrix. Basically if you are starting your search from here and you are considering this as the neighbor, you should not be continuing this search. This is outside the matrix. So the moment you get to know that you are outside the matrix, you terminate your search. You simply return. And where should we write that this case should that come after this line or before this line? Before, why? The first thing that you have to always consider is the correctness of the index. The index itself is incorrect. Then this line is going to give an exception. A re index out of bound. So the first thing that you must check is whether i and j are correct values for index or not. So i, if i is less than 0 or if j is less than 0 or if i is greater than or equals to m of 0 dot length, which means the number of columns that we have in any of these cases, we have already moved out of the matrix. So we must return, which means we must terminate this search. This is a wide function. That's why we are not returning anything. So we terminate this search. Does this mean it's installing? This is the exact same code that we had written in the last class. Is this that we have modified it for this specific type of graph? Where the graph is nothing but a matrix. Nevers are nothing but the four cells connected or sharing boundary with a given set. Okay. So now you have this DFS. What exactly this DFS is going to do? We start this DFS from here. It checks this cell returns because it is outside the matrix and it checks this cell again returns because it is also outside the matrix. Then it checks this cell again returns because the value of this cell is 0. Then it checks this cell. This is 1. So now it's going to proceed with this cell as this source. Then again it's going to check all the four neighbors. This one is already visited. This one is outside. This one is 0. This one is 0. So then it also returns. So what this DFS is going to do is that if you are starting it from this node as the source node, it is going to visit this component. Only this part and nothing else. If you start with this node as the source node, then this part is going to be visited. All of these will be marked as visited. And any other node will remain completely untouched. Is everyone able to understand this? Are all of you able to understand why none of the other cells will be touched if I am starting the DFS from any of these cells? Because this graph is very similar to the, you can say a set of graphs, right? So you have one graph here because connection is only considered if you have a lend mass connected with another lend mass. If you have water in between, that means there is no connection. So these two ones are connected. Then you have water in between, which means then this should not be considered as connection. Then all of these ones are connected to each other, which means you have another part of the graph where there are some nodes which are connected to each other, but they are not connected to this part. So this is what you have eventually. Is this making sense? So if you are starting a DFS from this node, you will only be able to visit this part. You won't be able to touch any of these nodes. If you start the DFS from here, you only visit this one. So how do you ensure that you are able to count such components that we have? How do we do this? We can simply run this inside a look. We simply iterate over this matrix. The moment we find a lend mass, initiate DFS and visit all the nodes that are connected to it that are reachable from here. The moment DFS returns, you have visited every single node, which is reachable from that specific source. Then you move to the next node. If it is un-vistayed, you start DFS again. If it is visited, that means it has already been counted as a part of one of the items. Is that making sense? And in this process, we will keep counting. The moment DFS returns, we increment the count. So we can have a function which returns us the number of islands. This can simply take the matrix, which is given to us. We are going to create this Boolean array, visited array of the same size currently initialized all the false. Which means that all the nodes are un-visted right now. And then we can simply run a loop. We can simply run a loop. We can simply iterate over all the cells of the matrix. And we can initiate DFS if a cell is un-visted. So we will first check if this i-comaget is 1. And if visited of i-comaget is false. If both of these conditions are being met, then what will we do? First thing, we can initiate a DFS and then we increment the number of i. Because this is a new island that we have just found. So we can have a answer initialized from 0. We do conceptless plus and we do DFS. And we pass all the required parameters in the DFS code. So you have the matrix, then you have visited and then the source node. And we enclose this here and in the end you can return whatever is the answer that you have got. Does this make sense to all of you? So what we are doing is we are simply running the DFS algorithm over all possible nodes of the graph. In this case, the graph was given to us in the form of a matrix. In a lot of questions, we will get graph represented as matrix. But you might have also been given this graph in the form of a adjacency list or adjacency matrix. In which case, you would use this type of a code. If you are given an adjacency list to represent the graph, then you will run this DFS inside a loop in order to pound these connected components. Clear? So no. Okay. So now if this is clear, let us solve one more question. You are given a graph. And now I would want all of you to do this one quickly. Now this graph you can assume is given in the form of either a matrix or an adjacency list. You have to check if the graph has a cycle in it. You can assume that the graph is undirected graph. And just for simplicity, you can also assume that the graph is connected graph, which means it is not going to have multiple connected components. All the nodes are reachable from any of the source code. Okay. So that is a undirected connected graph. You have to check if there is a cycle inside the graph or not. Is the question clear? Yes or no? Oh, for example, so there is no source node given to us. So the cycle can be anywhere inside the graph. So for example, if this is the graph, you may have let us say a cycle here. So what is the answer for this one? Do we have a cycle? We have it. The cycle is present here. Similarly in this graph also we have a cycle which is here. And in this graph, we don't have a cycle. Is the question clear? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. How do we know that we ended up on six from five or four? But six has an edge with both five and four. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. and call other than just the current source load, you will be having the parent as well. And then while running this load, you check whether the visitor node is equals to the parent or not. If it is not equals to the parent, that means it is a different node, that means there is a cycle. Is that clear? There is a node. So, we are all of you be able to implement it. Going to be the same code, same DFS code, is that instead of destination, you will pass parent. And this line will not be needed. Inside this, if a node is visited, if this visited node is not equals to the parent, then there is a cycle. Otherwise, you continue running the DFS with the updated source node and the updated parent. Here, here, there is a node. Okay, one last question before we say BFS, you are given two nodes in a graph, you have to find the shortest distance between them. So, you have a source in a destination, and you are supposed to find what is the shortest distance to which these two nodes are connected. And there can be cycles as well. So, you can find the shortest distance between the two nodes. So, it is also number number. Let us say the source node in this case is 1, and the destination is 8. What is the shortest distance between one and eight? Shortest distance between least number of edges. So, we need to find a path through which we cross the least number edges in order to reach the destination. What is the minimum distance in which we can reach node 8 from node 1? So, one way of reaching it would be we take this path 1, 2, 3, 4, actually let us add one more node. So, one path could be this one. Okay, so one of the path is that you go from 1, 2, 5, 6, 9 and 8. Another path could be that you take 1, then you take 2, then 3, then 7 and then 8. Or another path could be that you take 1, 4, 3, 7, 8, which is also the minimum distance in which we can reach 8 from one, that is 4, which is this one. Does it question clear? This one no? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Everyone going forward will be doing one interesting thing in the class, which is that I can see that some of you are doing something else or have no idea what is going on in the class. So going forward, if I catch you doing anything other than what is going on in the class, or if you are not able to tell me what exactly I will be doing at this point of time, then that is minus 10 from your overall score. Okay. So in the end, you are going to get some score out of 100. You can expect minus 10. If you are sleeping in the class, that is minus 50. Okay. Minus 10 generally is going to cause you a downgrade of one minus 15 can cause a downgrade of two. And there is no cap here. The more number of times I catch you, the more direction is going to happen. So if I catch you three times, that is minus 30. Is that even clear? Yes or no? Okay. Okay. Okay. So how many of you are done with this problem? Good. So in this first of all, if you are using a text for search, the idea of that for searches, that you take the list of all the available labels, pick one of them and then start explaining that specific path. Then you visit till you hit a dead end and then you come back, then you backtrack. Is it guaranteed that a tech for search, the moment you find your destination, is it guaranteed that the path that we are going to visit, that will always be the shortest path. It's not guaranteed because it's possible that you first hit two, then you come from two, you go to five and you keep marking all of them is listed, which means we are never going to visit any of these nodes again. And we are going to cover all the nodes because the graph is a connected graph. Once all of the nodes are dead, we are dead. So we are never going to explore any other path. Even if it is going to be a shorter path, then what we already have. So how do we find the shortest distance? But the point is that once a node has already been visited, we are not going to visit it again. So suppose we start the depth for search from one, then we go to two, we and we keep marking all of these as visited. So see the code that we have discussed, that has a condition that if the FF should only be initiated, if the node that we are finding is unmistied. So first we mark one is listed, we go to two, we mark two is listed, then we mark five is listed, then we mark this node is listed, then nine is listed, eight is listed. And whatever distance we have, we keep that distance here. And then we mark seven is listed, then three is listed, four is listed, and now four does not have any other unmistied neighbor. So this four is going to return back to three, three also do not have any neighbor which is unmistied. So three is going to return back to its parent. Similarly seven also does not have any other unmistied neighbor. So it returns back to parent and this way finally comes back to one. Now all the nodes have been listed, which means that we are not going to initiate another DFS from four because four is already listed. So there is only one path through which we are reaching eight and that path is not the shortest path. So one thing that we can do here is that we remove that condition. We are unable to visit any other path taking us to these nodes because we have this condition of nodes being unmistied. So we can remove this condition, but if we do this, then the function will never stop. All the nodes will be listed will still continue exploring them using DFS. It's going to be an infinite loop, we'll never stop in this DFS. So using DFS it is going to be pretty hard. However, if we don't apply DFS, if we think logically, you don't really need DFS in this case because you know that all the nodes which are directly connected with this given source node are always and always going to be at a distance of one. Yes or no? We don't need any algorithm to declare this right. One, if it is a source node, we can say is currently at zero distance. Any node that is directly connected is always going to be at a distance of one. So we can say that two and four, since they are the direct neighbor of one, they are at a distance of one. Actually, in fact, let's first create a adjacency list, which is going to make it easier for us to visualize. So one is connected to two and four, then we have two, which is going to get to one and three. And we have three connected to two, four and seven, five is connected to two and six. This is the adjacency list representation of this graph. So now, since we know that the source is one, all of these two and four are definitely at a distance one. We cannot have a distance shorter than one between these nodes. So, Mark, one here, then once we have listed these two, any node which is connected to any of these two, the shortest distance to that node is going to be two. Does that make sense? Because there might be other ways, other paths of reaching those nodes, which are directly connected to two and four, but the shortest is going to be through two and four. So two is directly connected to one, which is already listed, no need to worry about it. And three. So for three, the minimum distance is always and always going to be two. There might be other paths, which take us to three, but we will never be able to find a distance less than two. Is that making sense? So first, we are visiting the directly connected neighbors. Then in the second step, we are going to their directly connected neighbors. Four is directly connected to one and three. One is already listed. Three is also listed now. So no need to do anything else. In the next step, all the neighbors of the distance two nodes are going to be present at a distance three. So then you go to the adjacency list of this node. You have two, four and seven, two and four are already listed. Seven is remaining. So seven is going to be at a distance of three. Is that making sense? You started from a source node. The first thing that you did was visit every node that is directly connected to the source node. Mark the distances one. Then you go to their neighbors and you visit all of these neighbors, neighbors of neighbors and you mark their distances two. In the next step, you visit neighbors of all of these. You take all of them and one by one visit all of their neighbors. If there is any un-vista node, then their distance is going to be three. If you have a visited node, then you already have a smaller distance. You don't need to be updated. Is that making sense? We are going step by step. We are going level by level or one breadth at a time. So instead of doing a TFS in this case, we need a breadth first. And this is what we do in breadth first. We start from a source node. We visit the directly connected nodes. Then we take all of those directly connected nodes and then we visit their neighbors. Then we take all of them. We visit their neighbors. Then we take all of them with their neighbors and so on. Is that making sense? Five is. Five is also connected to two. Yes, five should have been here. So in that case, five's distance also becomes, sorry, five is connected to two, which means its distance is going to be two. These two are one and these two are. And then anything that is connected to five and three, that is at a distance of three. Anything that is connected to seven and six, that will be at a distance of four. It is level order traversal. It is not like level order traversal. It is level order traversal. It is the breadth first. So in binary trees, how did you execute the exact same thing in a binary tree? Now, let me know if you are able to recall this. You used to get, let's say, this node or this node. So what we used to do in binary trees was that we will first need to visit this node. Then we need to visit all of these. And in binary trees, the order was very important. We have to visit all of them from left to right. And then we had to visit all of their children in the order from left to right again. Then all of their children in the order from left to right. So which data structure did we use in order to maintain this order? We can use the exact same thing. We can have the exact same code even in this list. You can take a queue, insert your source node inside the queue. This is how it is going to proceed. Now, since it is not a tree, which means there can be a cycle, you need to keep track of nodes that have already been visited. Otherwise, you will keep this thing the same nodes again and again. So you are going to have a visited idea or a instead set and you are going to have a queue. The first thing that you are going to do is you insert your source node in the queue along with a distance. So you can have your own class, right. The class can have node and distance as the attribute and you insert their object. So you have the node one with a distance of 0. This is the first entry inside you. When you pop this out, what you will be doing is you will iterate over your first fetch the list of all the nodes connected to it using your adjacency list. Then you iterate over this list and if you find any unlisted node, you insert these nodes inside the queue with a distance of parent's distance plus 1. So this is removed. Now one is directly connected to 2 and 4. So you are going to insert 2 with a distance of 0 plus 1 and you are going to insert 4 with a distance of 0 plus 1. In the next iteration, you are again going to do the same thing. You pop out from the queue and if the node is unlisted. So right now you have listed 1, you have listed 2, you have listed 4. Let's assume this is a set. So next you pop out 2 and all the neighbors of 2 can now be inserted with a distance of 1 plus whatever is the distance associated to 2. So neighbors of 2 are 1 and 3. One is already listed. No need to do anything. You already have a better distance for it. So we are going to insert 3 along with a distance of 2. Is that making sense? Yes or no? Then the next node inside the queue is 4. We pop out 4 and we insert all the neighbors of 4. All the unlisted neighbors of 4. So 4 has 1 has been able and 3 has been able but both of them have been listed. Is this being visible? Now is it visible? So we are going to pop this and then both of them have already been listed. So that means no need to do anything. So we can simply actually 5 we have again missed 5. So 5 should have also inserted here with a distance of 2. So 5 has a distance of 2. The next node that we are going to pop out is 3 along with a distance of 2. We pop this off and we iterate over the adjacency list of 3. We see that 2 is listed already. 4 is listed already. 7 is yet to be listed. So 7 will now be inserted along with a distance of 3's distance plus 1. So 7's distance now becomes 3. Here is so no. This is your right first. You guys will be able to implement it. Yes or no? The code is going to be very similar to your level order traversing. What do you need in a level order traversing? You need a queue. So in binaries you needed queue to maintain this order right. You always wanted these children before these children. So that is why you process them in first and first outweigh. So that the children of this node are always preceded first. Then the children of this node then the children of this node. So that order is maintained. This is a generic graph. Do we really need to maintain any type of ordering here? No right. So instead of queue can we use any other data structure or is a queue necessary? What if the ordering of these nodes is jumbad? Is anything going to change? If we change the ordering, if we don't process them in the exact same order, will anything change? Yes or no? The ordering in this case is we are talking about this ordering right. So first we need to visit on the directly connected nodes. Then all the nodes which are directly connected to these nodes. And so on. If we jumble this ordering, will the distances still be smallest distances? Yes or no? Suppose we declare that the resistance of this node is 1. Then instead of visiting these 2, if we first start visiting this one, it is possible that this is also probably connected directly. But we skip that and we first prioritize this connection. So if we change this ordering, then your distances are going to be wrong. So you have to ensure that you are first visiting all directly connected nodes at once. If you skip any of them, then that will be wrong distances. So all the directly connected nodes first, then the neighbors of all of them, then the neighbors of all of them and so on. This order has to be followed, which means we need a queue strictly even in this case. While the ordering of these nodes does not matter. You can visit these nodes in any order. You can first visit this node, then this, then this. Or you can first visit this, then this, then this. That order is not going to have any impact in your distances. But if you change the ordering of the level, first visit this node, then this node, then this node. Then you are coming back to this, that's wrong. Then you're definitely going to run distances. Is that making sense? So you need a queue. Let me just write probably a pseudo code here and then you can convert it to a actual working code. So you're going to have a queue and in order to ensure that you're not listing the same node again and again, you will be needing a visited set, right. Which initially is going to be should be initialized with false, except for the source node for the source node you have to make it. So whatever is your source node from where you are starting this traversal for that you can initialize it as. Then you take this queue, you add the source node inside the queue. And then very similar to what and how you do it in case of binary trees, you are simply going to iterate inside this loop. What you have to do is you have to first pop out a node from the queue. Take that node, iterate over the adjacency list in binary trees, you only had two connections. So you use to pop it out and then you use to check whether it has a left child, whether it has a right child. And then you decide if it has very useful to me in this case, you can have a number of connections. So you have to implement a loop inside. Because there can be many children connected to. So first thing that you'll be doing is take out this node by simply pulling the queue. Once you have this node, now depending on how exactly the graph is stored, you need the list of all the nodes connected to it. If it is an adjacency matrix, then you will have to iterate over that specific row of that matrix. If it is an adjacency list stored in the form of a hash map, then you can directly use the get function. And it's assumed that it is a hash map of this type. So in that case, you find the list of all the neighbors. So you can do your adjacency list map dot get this node. And then you iterate over this list. And now what you have to do is inside this list for every single world is that is present, you have to check whether it has already been listed or not. If it has already been listed, no need to do anything, simply skip it. If it has not been listed, in that case, you are going to market as listed and insert it inside that queue. That's it. So this we just start here. This becomes your iF node. And now you check if this we has not been listed, in that case, you edit in your queue and you mark this as listed. That is it. This is a basic template for breadth first. Now if you want to find the distance instead of inserting only the node, you should insert the distances. You should insert the source with a distance of 0 and any other node that you are inserting, you are going to insert it with the source distance plus 1. That becomes the distance of this neighboring node that you are going to insert. What should be a condition here in the while loop? Till when do we need to continue running this node? Till we have elements present inside that queue. So till the size of the queue is greater than 0, we will continue running this node. In that case. Is this making sense to all of you? Yes or no? Okay. So now what do you think are the time complexities of both the DFS as well as BFS? What is the time complexity? As we discussed earlier, in the context of grass, we are not going to discuss the time complexity in terms of n or n. We have two different entities now. We have nodes and we have edges. So you can assume that there are V number of nodes and there are E number of edges. What is the time complexity of DFS? What is the time complexity of DFS? How many nodes are going to be inserted? What is going to be the maximum size the queue is going to take? Number of? Can you be a little louder? Time complexity is going to be order of V. Sure? Okay, let's look at it in this perspective. How many times is this loop going to be out and while you? This while loop is going to run in number of times we are going to insert and pop from the queue. Which means whatever is the maximum size the queue is going to attain. That is the number of times this outer while loop is going to run because the moment queue becomes empty, we stall. So what is the maximum number of entries that we are going to insert inside the queue? Inside the queue we are inserting nodes only if they are unvisted. Which means every single node will be inserted how many times at max once inserted, removed. Once it is marked visted then you are not going to insert it again. Which means this outer loop definitely is going to run V times. But in every iteration of this outer loop we are doing another iteration and this loop is going to run. What is the number of times this loop is going to run? This runs list dot length times list which list is this? This is the adjacency list of that vertex. So whatever is the number of vertex is connected to a given vertex. Those many times that inner loop is going to run. So outer loop is running V number of times. Inner loop is going to run over all of these adjacency list. Whether we are inserting in the queue or not that does not matter. This loop still is going to run. There is no if condition outside this loop. This loop has to run regardless of the vertex has been visted or not. Is that making sense? Inside this loop we are checking whether the vertex has been visted or not. If it is not visted only then we add it inside the queue. But we are going to visit. We are going to iterate over all of these adjacencies lists that are present inside the graph. The z makes sense to all of you. Yes or no? So we have an outer loop which runs for all of the vertexes. We have an inner loop which in total runs for these many times. So for every iteration of the outer while loop if you add how many times the inner for your learns that is going to be these many nodes. Because eventually you are going to iterate over all of these individual lists. Yes or no? So what is the total number of entries that we are going to have here? Okay. The total number of entries that we are going to have here is nothing but number of edges. This is just double the number of edges because we are counting every h2 times. One is connected to 2. 2 is also connected to 1. So this is nothing but 2 into e and the outer loop is running for v times. So the overall time complexity becomes order of v plus where I trading over all the vertexes. And we are also iterating over all the edges. In a lot of cases number of edges will be more than vertex. Which is okay. In a lot of cases if the graph is disconnected it is possible that number of vertex is greater than number of edges. We are not right. Number of edges and vertexes depends on the structure of the graph. So that is why we will keep both of them in the time complexity. Is everyone clear with this? Okay. Now you have to figure out what is the time complexity of DFS on your own as a homework. Okay. In the next class I will want one of you to explain this in DFS. Okay. And not just this also the space complex. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now once you know that DFS is an approach that can be applied in order to find the shortest distance. Now if you take a step back this was the problem that we wanted to solve right. We were trying to do a routing of data packets in a network of routers. And we want to find the shortest path. Can this DFS solve that problem for us? DFS can find the shortest path right? Yes or no? And DFS find the shortest path between any two given nodes. We are just going to have it. It can only if the weights of all the edges are exactly the same. We are assuming that all of these edges which are directly collected. All of them are at a distance one. If the graph is unwinded it is going to solve everything. If the graph is not unwinded if there are weights and if all give it a recoil by chance, then also it will work. But if the weights are not equal it is possible that this distance is one this is 100. Both of them are not at the same distance. What do we do in that case? So can we modify the BFS slightly? Let's add some weights here. And see if there is a modification of this BFS possible, which can get us the shortest distance. Even if the graph is weighted and the weights are not the same. This is the graph. The BFS was assuming that 2 and 4 are at the same distance. This is one to take some time work on this or would you want to solve this on your own? Okay, so then take this also as a homework. We will start the next class with the discussion of solution of this. The problem is that there are weights, weights are not equal. However, you can assume that the weights are always and always greater than 0. It is not negative. Wits are either going to represent the distance or they are going to represent the time that it takes for you to travel from one point to another or probably the amount of traffic. So you can assume that the weights are always and always going to be greater than 0. Or what you have, you don't need to learn anything new in order to solve this question. You just need to modify the BFS. Small modification and you will have a new algorithm on it. Okay. So, okay. Now, have you received the information about your quiz? It will not happen on Friday. It will happen on the next day. That the account of the statement will announce. And we may have an extra class this Saturday. You don't have any exam right? On Saturday? Saturday we can have a class. When exactly do you have the item of this exam? Okay. So, on 12th there is no exam and on 14th also there is no exam right? Okay. So, we will then either have it on 12th or 14th. Let me check with that. Okay. Thank you everyone. Okay. Then you will get this. You will get this from the end of the exam. Okay. So, you will get this. You just write an email. Just for an information. And then we will figure out. We will have separate quiz or probably we will have a different additional. We can have a Y-Wa or we can shift your weightage to a different exam. We will figure that out. Or you can give a reexample. So, only for the quiz. How only for the quiz. I think we should be getting the quiz days right tomorrow or. Yeah. Okay.