charge revenue bang gr seen a so most this is get an idea and also the screen chat starts in between the standard features are not used features are used for single-party so out of these three standard and robots are the future and we want to look into the standard features are used in So for example if we are using z minus z, which is also x minus z, so x minus z is nothing but each and every time we get which is there. We are subtracting the z from that character and then we are taking the standard variation. So this is something which will be like the outgats in the place, in the means like very high. So that is the first part, we will match the setting, moving to the second part and they go to view. It is like for example I have got the values, can 20, at least 40 and 500. So this is getting helpful if you want to do, we take the scaling part in the boundary which is 0 to 1, but what we will do is we add some brain, brain, number and then the boundary will be switched to the left side, which is close to the 0 and the one which is having a higher value will be like switched to the right side. So the distribution is not the most of the values will be at the left side, but it will not then it goes like one of the value at the right side. So this is the masses rate which is also a small time sense rate. Now to make sure that this thing does have 3 rates of problem, then we will have to go the scale. The idea is like there also in the first one, we are taking view which is average which is already mean this is already sensitive problem. In the second one, in fact we are already taking the normal aspect of that. So that also it is not just it to be that if you are coming very low value, very high value, but if robust we are actually taking the median, we are not using B, right. So if we are taking median, we already dealt with the outer part. So we are subtracting each and you as we are subtracting the median from each side. I think this is the 50th percent time rate. I will show you by the term for fifth lecture with the RIS in the rate of 0. So in the point I rate is not required if we are having a series of numbers, then we are having 25% 25%, 25% 25% each point. So we take the median that we are over 50% that means from the point what it is down, 25% let us not be hoping the increase in space where may be because principal school in the, so it is a process of decryption very good rate. So suppose that a labor höp of funds, minimum rate is not allowed and the ratio to 1 is nautoday session is musli belated to the linear relation team bag. So what I think Manipur to I will share two more talks today. The previous one and this one I wrote it. I forgot the Google right. I shared on SST, as well. But then while we are going to do today and we are trying to understand why linear relation is the starting point of the problem. So generally why it doesn't happen that we only start with the linear relation. Then we go to the law distribution and we go to the end and this is the case. I wrote it about three years ago. So what happens if you are a learned and straight in class, we are not good. So there are models. And these studies are models. And then what to do is, these models are not actually right. And then some other models are in it. So linear relation is the one that is like right not the same side of those models that this one was very close to basic one that we started off. And then we thought that no it is not really optimized. Now we are finding out ways to optimize it. And between the like process of optimization, there are certain more applications which change little. So we first see what the model and how we can annotate the model in the practice form. Then explain why we are using square letters. And why then what are the three ways that what the square letters are necessary to be used. And then we will write the normal equation. Like we will try to write it here in front. And then we will see that why the close form equation is the normal equation is not enough for linear relation. So for example, let us say if I go ahead and draw this. So let us say for example, this is a success and we are having a success the time of the powers like the students spend to study and the school that they want to write. So the one's key point is like for example, this point if I take this point here, this projection falls on x axis for like so let's say five hours by and the score it's getting around 80. So I can say if you say that this is to it like each student is at the point here, it's ready for my level and what 80 score is in time is right. So what linear relation actually does is like linear relation is responsible for creating a best fit line best fit line out of those call scatter points right there. We can optimize the line also in such a way that most of the points are the minimum variations on that line like really very close to that line. The gap will see if we call that gap as a residual or error or whatever you can like a way from the like real prediction line. So that actual prediction and the real prediction that actually random the real value. It's very less we try to form a line so for example if I draw a line like this then let's say this point this point this point either like very close to close to the line this point is like ready for a reason of the line. So that means that we are having a larger residual or not of it because the slow risk of the right. So we are trying to optimize the line which passes to the point right which tells us that our prediction is like really close to the actual line. So this is the whole reason of where the problems start like it was you cannot cross state line in a scatter plot and assume that most of your prediction point will be close to your actual line. So the linear regression as well as the field is the see what happens if I draw line like this graph like this where one point is here one point is here one point is here here here here or maybe here three four point three four point here and then I draw line like this right. This will not make sense it will it will be only good for this point this point this point and maybe this point but for these points and these points the line is like very very far right. So here the entire confusion gets started for the linear regression that is it really good for like going into the for the modeling we can expect a score that is really the liability linear regression only. So this is the first intuition that we are getting here and the second one is like from one feature to many feature right. Why does it mean by one feature to many feature like it is not only possible that the line of the integration by the way I said that the first thing it might be represent the linear regression in terms of matter execution right. So this equation is nothing but a matter of equation only. Why is it also we cannot be done on X1 or like I already have X but if you go to people get one X1 to it's the reason right. So the first is like having one feature only and the second time is happening multiple feature only right. So this is one of the things that is are getting really stuck at the end of the regression so for example the entire geometry and the way so it's then the equation right. You already have studied in like 12th of early in math also that if there is a equation that equation generally a form relates to a graph right whatever graph is gone there is a more something on the graph right. So for example if I have a single equation which is how do you like only one feature of a kind of a text with that of E1 text without this what. Intercept with equation from here and then E1 is what so right that is like how X that if I change X then how by the line right and data how this something like let's say. So this is the first like equation that we are having as us now and. Screen is stopped here it's a share now. Okay so now this is our code right so if there is one feature or two feature one feature it will cost one to a line right single one and then you can write right to feature it will cost one for the plane right the a length and a bit right. Three feature it will cost one to three to you why I was not it keep on adding so when features the features are what we are increasing the bottom dimension right. So as we know like there is one like how you write and for the time you are but you are not of polypomy agree. Polypomy is something which we are like like before or over or something like that. So when like in this term what we see is like when we are having multiple positions of multiple features then that model went into hyper plane right we don't we cannot really visualize which plane the model is like it can only see as of now we can only see 3d I cannot visualize 4d but if we increase the model of the city it will be going into like increasing dimensions so anything which is beyond like to be plane of something 3d plane that is considered into hyper plane. So this is one of the intension that you are getting so sorry that what happens that if you feel most of the try to get the picture out of it if you see most features to a model right if I am saying that this is feature one as feature two as well as feature three as well as feature four as well then what will happen the complexity of the model will get increased every time to get increased that is the four reason why we don't we trust R square may we have heard of that R square. So we trust R square but you will see that in the next two weeks why R square is also not really helpful but it is not really we go into access to R square. So that like we already so for example what happens in real world is in I mean the radius you can you can you can you participate if you are giving x features to a model you are giving more experience to that one which I mentioned in the first class right so if you are giving more experience to the model you will expect your model to perform really well to the tasks right but like the other thing is like you are giving x so if you are giving x features to the model you are increasing the the many consumption and computational time. So is it really worth it to keep on giving model features and features and features like even in the features are really not so for example if if it is feature one my model is there right at this point the features two it is there it is there but at some point I think of feature the model that is stagnant right so after that adding more feature really does not make sense to the model but if someone is adding more feature it is doing nothing but already increasing the model of the condition and time and it is increasing the cost. So you will see that you have like a model which I have had in the previous years of the top of it you will see the right time but you will see the right time actually takes a lot more time by 6 10 minutes to run the form place model but somehow like if you are running a daily complex model then it might take up to 30 40 minutes also. So that is one of the things so our goal is like we have to optimize and this data box can for official key what that need for example if I think one feature of constant so as to predict the house price why why is it also data which is the interest that is all already there. Data box one which is a data box and put daily office then data to location of the house so what position means is like keeping one feature at constant that means if I put location as constant then one unit change in the area of the house wait increase the model by data box not understanding. So let's say this is why had one thing like the annotation can differ like sometimes we can say like prediction as why had but somewhere like you can find it as f of x f of x is nothing but we are defining a function of x so f of x is also why only so why had we have there so this beta not is what it is that is already there something to control right then we have beta one area. Then we have beta to location right so if I put location as constant this thing as constant right so what how or why had to be this is also constant right this is also constant this is not constant but I'm trying to say that if a single or other features are constant given a single one then my why had to be differ if I change one unit area then beta one into one unit. So if I change one unit in area then my why will differ with beta one position that is the official that is what like see sometimes it is really hard to get intuition on the formulas which are written there just try to like get intuition that what the formula is saying that will be very there are like lot more complex science if you see the formula I want to be like these are like really complex science on the book but just try to get an intuition on the whole thing. All maybe a mathematical example that's the more enough we probably have some like notations but I will be giving you some mathematical example that will be clear okay now this is a question of anyone who is aware of what this is actually needs. You might have heard of a jargon hypothesis testing something like that right. Sorry. Kind of similar to radiation hypothesis is something that he's on right so but you have to say that let's say this class can also scale to 500 square that is my hypothesis. Now what I do I have said the hypothesis and now I work on to be my hypothesis right. So this is what hypothesis means right and cost function this is the entire day the entire game of the forming is based on cost function. The last anonymous names for cost function which is loss function he get errors residuals whatever it is right. The end goal is that we are trying to get a hypothesis and we are trying to minimize the error the cost function the loss function whatever it is like if you are like going into different different models let's say in the next class we are going to gradient descent and gradient descent we will see that we are minimizing the same thing we are adding and local we will go. We are the data. So this is the hypothesis right the first equation is the high probability at capital X right so it's either writing beta on beta on beta. I have written beta right beta is not but a matrix of all the position. Let's understand it like this wait. So for example this is okay so this first equation what we have written is written as beta on beta on beta and XN right. But if we want to formulate the entire equation of linear regression I won't be thinking of writing beta on beta to beta. We will go for like in significant right so we have given this as an annotation then why had is what why had is our last prediction target right what we are trying to predict. We can be right might be correct right but this is what we are trying to predict X is what X is our features okay and beta notice what we beta notice position right and this is features. Okay then what happens we are trying to do a matrix multiplication nothing more than that right so for example X is a feature that means what I can say. Now let's say I use area location right so if the area is like to after feature is getting and the location comes to be 5 right so X is nothing but 2.5. In that both of the features this is X1 and this is X1 okay then coefficient is what coefficient is beta 1 and beta 2. Okay beta 1 and beta 2 okay so this is nothing but a matrix of the coefficient and X is nothing but a matrix of features right. So you know matrix multiplication right if there is a matrix I say M into N and it is multiplied with some other matrix then it should be N into N right. So we multiply this and this should be matrix then only we can multiply the matrix right so that is the same thing in the equation we are also seeing that same thing. Hey if X is a high rate of N rows having these features right and this is having these features each having one or another you already know what we should find then we are creating one one prediction what we should right let's say you have a house we like why we house going to be one person this is what the hydrocosic right and this this is the boss function boss functions what we describe we describe it. This is why this is why it had of I okay that means for each each entity we are predicting one why why I had right that why I had that we have predicted and the actual why that error is there we are squaring that error we are summing it from 1 to n right whatever the entries and dividing the hand that is we are summing the square of the error and getting an average. So that is mean is why and which is our loss and the only objective is for us to minimize this loss if we minimize the loss our model will get more closer to the condition right that is the more like core objective that we are having right. So this is the only right of me look like the as we are all about data right but going for one take it as I follow this is the only way to get it I will do that as well as the next few letters but see what happens we have written one equation right features are there we cannot do anything with the features we can only assign weights to that feature so that we can get close to our. So the whole idea is like we are trying to manipulate data to get this minimize right this is what is written trading is nothing but minimize that taking the best possible value of the position which minimizes your error right which minimizes your loss or the mean square that is the same now it the move forward to it then the reason is like why it is the mean square error why why why why not. Why not absolute error absolute error is also there now like for example more of x something which is absolutely right by x square any intuition on top of it by by using x square only by more why not models x. So that is one example visualize that he can at all. This is our prediction line gave him are a why had like this is a why actually okay so this is actual line and let's say this is our prediction line one which is why had one and this is our prediction line two. So this line we have a prediction after the actual any prediction both the right so for example the predicted why this let's assume it as y axis for your reference so if we go like up the axis it will be positive right and down the axis it will be negative right so for example if I go ahead with this this residual here. This residual let's say it is something positive T1 okay and if I go into this residual let's say it is negative T1 right so what will the model say is like for example you have given a prediction are whole over model error this is this 0 right. So for example it is it is getting a hard stop at right hard stop at if you are using absolute error it will give you a hard stop at 0 which is not really good in terms like the error actually is like our model both of the model is completely going to T right. So for example if we go into the initial line we will see that the first one is getting above but the second one is getting below right so this is the core intuition and the second thing is going to the intuition or the computational format then if we are using x okay mod of x then what should be its value it will be something like minus x for anything x less than 0. So if we are computing anything of x square so its differentiation will be 2x okay and even as x is equals to 0 you will get something like 0 okay so this thing will be less computationally expensive and so this is the real thing. So 0 you will get something like 0 okay so this thing will be less computationally expensive if you understand in terms of graph if you see a differentiation graph it will be coming like this it won't be like this hard stop at 0 right so this is like covering more more more values and you will be getting something falling on this graph which will make sense right it will not drop suddenly at 0 so that is one point right. So the second point is like we assume that our error is normally distributed normally distributed means what our error starts like this this and then it got distributed like this right so for this also our mean square error is like that for any Gaussian distribution we describe it with perform and the third most important thing okay is the usually you with me or medium mean is not I only told that me is not required right. But for any mean square error in the statistical terms we are using these square then at that moment of time the mean the mean computation is the best possible prediction that you have received the maximum algorithm because we have already squared right if you are using absolute and medium will be less right if you are using me I showed you by by. So that you like look with your own eyes even if I like solving the max it will come down below me which is which will be having these mean square the mean will be the best prediction which will have the best at least we are not out so these three things forms the intuition of getting these right the first thing we don't want the absolute error so you don't want to very like high stop at 0 which I mentioned the first time which is correct even possible. Statistically it is we mean that the error term which is having the last e absolute error is having the normal distribution which are written normal distribution is not even e 0 and standard deviation see faster right here also the least is why will be like most like which is the rest and our model is like most which is one of most likely to make it so really close to the back right. This is the one that is our condition is to minimize the square then the best possible situation that we can have is like me condition me okay so if we are having an absolute error then condition of medium will be the best possible answer right this thing is not required because we are having the same problem such as it the same that the error term is chosen by us it is not correct right. So the next slide we don't go with so if you bring up on a line you will see that I just did not I just did I just did not see what is the least one so there are different error parameters that you see the model and you choose it or not right now this is one of the best right now we go into condition of medium okay that is the condition of medium that is the medium is right so I condition of medium will be the best possible answer is it okay. Now this condition of medium is the medium is right what is that mean not the question if you see this you will be like vegetable food what has been written there for it no need to go ahead with the question I was not going to do it. So I just did not see the question I was not because then just for the representation purpose I show you in the last example that I have to go back by the way she did not see it. This is why I did not see what happened see this is the first condition that this is a few days right as well as it is quite hard right I have to do it quite hard and as well as we can write any day. So I will write it as well but we are doing the actual my experience that is the same and this is the same. These are the most important things that we make out the actual my experience. Then this is the response that we need there. This is why it is not that I actually did why you got you and why you need why you need this also something is going to be constant right. So we have our actual then I will do also some use what's in the proper fluctuation here why we have to process again this operation so this file of s is the 100.2 right if we try to go close with the for facts then it will get minimize if we try to go away from a for facts then it will get maximize as simple as that right. So now let's say for example let's go into the whiteboard and see here. Sorry. Okay let's say what we have to prove we have to prove that mean minimizes conditional mean minimizes means whether right. So the first thing is like conditional mean conditional mean what means what it is a mean but with respect to a condition that means for example if I say that students who study five hours right. Then to get like 70 80 I choose and I will choose and I got a condition of five hours only at a condition of my words I'm seeing a score which is when we from 70 80 90. Then if I take the scores mean of those things then that will be a conditional mean because I've only taken the mean of those scores for which the student has study five hours so that is conditional mean taking for a certain condition right. For that conditional mean and now I'll just tell you that for take any kind of a mean okay so for example 10 very basic 10 20 30 40 and 50 right these are the parameters okay this is what this is our points right now I have predicted something like this is my prediction remove the why had. I'll make a prediction I have the data I'll make a prediction as 20 okay cool now I see that what minimizing the means for the means like okay simple analogy access there I predicted 20 right so the first one difference between why one minus the prediction so my why had is what why had is 20 right as. So why had from the first target why had sorry let's say I'll remove this one and then write prediction minus x 1 okay so that will be what 10 right so if we are getting 10 in absolute value we are taking x minus minus in the prediction I've written it like opposite if you are doing x1 minus predict it. So we x1 minus prediction cross it x1 minus spread then it will be minus 10 x1 minus spread to then it will let's say form an arrow in the head x1 minus 10 is like minus 10 then x2 minus 10 to the 0 then x3 minus prediction it will be like 10 and then x4 minus prediction to be like 20 and x5 minus prediction to be like 30 okay right this is my area of one error right. So now following what I'm doing that mean is whatever is minimized then we predict me when we have to prove that anyone who make like how I proceed I have to prove that one way I can is like let's see I'm also proving it for the first time but let's see if it goes well so now like we have gotten the error right we have chosen one prediction value and we have gotten the error right so what is the square of the error let's say this is the error one right this is error 2 residual you can tell residual error whatever you want to do error 3 errors 4 errors 5 okay so if I do square of the error square of the error is what 100 right plus 0 plus 100 plus 200 is 200 is 400 and then 30 900 right what is the sum can anyone calculate that 500 1500 right now this is what sum of the squares of error right this is what we have defined what was the function that we are going to minimize mean okay that I have taken mean of it mean of it is what I have already added I have divided by 1 2 3 4 5 right so if I do an msc on top of it and it will by 1500 divided by 5 okay so it is how much 300 okay so this is the me right we want to minimize that mean square okay so sum of the squares is like 1500 we want to minimize this 300 I mean mean square is 300 right now if you see if I give it as 20 it is coming as sum of the squares is coming as 1500 right this is sum of the squares and this is the ms right then what is happening it as predicted 20 on top of it now we prove that same thing now x is there we said that ms sum of the squares or the msc will be less if we are taking mean right so what is what will be the mean of this x 50 1490 150 what will be mean we are going to be 30 okay 30 is the mean right that means R R sum of the squares should be less at 30 right so if I put the prediction as 30 here and then I form the residual matrix which is the error then what I am doing 10 minus 30 it is minus 20 then again 20 minus 30 it is minus 10 30 minus 30 it is there is there is no then 40 minus 30 it is 10 then 50 minus 30 it is 20 right okay now do the square of this 400 100 0 100 400 how much of this 4 and 400 800 1000 does it what minimize from 1500 when minimize just like when we have taken mean right so the whole formula like the entire formula that has shown you know that was looking like hell hell you go first right so that is what is going on many sense with the notion this is the variation that I think of right and if you calculate let us say this is the sum of the squares again if I go ahead and divide by 5 we will get into 200 which is 3 let us think right so MS is maybe much then that formula is same that if we want other MSc to be made by the initial relation or some of this was going to be vice the bigger the best possible case to be really deep right there is other analogy that I am just trying to make the case clear that this is not so good my mind okay sometimes what happens is like if I did you five numbers right 10 20 40 50 I said say to predict one number then you will just take the mean right and you will predict the another number right this is the first possible in the model can be right it the model is not making any kind of sense because just calculating the mean and giving you good but this is this is the in the picture of the regulation that's why we don't use the integration to be ready right we have other one was also we never try to say but we are going to say but but the division we have seen it actually happening that is we take me and we are see it depends on which error might be so if you see mean square error that I got a lot of time I know that I need the preparation that will decrease the this error might be right if you some other 에리 okay what we have done ok suppose we have like actual points 10 20 20 50 50 deal is 30 right but we have predicted 20 out of all right so what has happened we we have seen the integration which is the residual form the actual amount so actual amount is greater actual amount is greater actual amount is greater average that average is not equal to average that is the average average right now we are swiping each other here we are swiping some some take so that is some of the swaps which is some is to be right then if we are calculating mean some of the as mean swiping so that that is the probability that is the number of entries which is 5 which is some 2 3 right then post that what we are doing we are trying and testing it with 30 you can try and test with 40 also you will get a higher value than 2 right so that is the intuition which this equation is basically same to you right the only down to my control is the prediction is the only in the process this thing is already fixed right why I have never changed why you are doing you will see this is mean of the right and why is already there actual so this is the only down that you can do now why this thing like is most important is like the entire of the session session session 6 which is by service data is dependent on this we right how far we are actually from our prediction right and how very we are actually from our prediction that is the entire course 5 that is state of where all the under 15 whole 20 topics related to it right so that is the 4 and 2 channel permission of the head now as we go ahead this is a normal equation normal right this is also in something which is the string but just like a sometime and which is not all of it that what this is the beginning so this is quite a close form equation close form equation of normal equation just remember that is a normal equation ok so what is happening I told you that our model was this sorry that is why I have data ok so this data is nothing but our position right position matrix every position value collected to 1 matrix right and x is our every feature that you could hold it into 1 matrix right so if I tell you that my my hat is dependent on features already features keep dependent on features also the more good features are really good features in use you will be able to work with the prediction but it is also dependent on the way it is that your sign that is features right like if you assign if there is a feature there the feature is not really really put on the way it and it is like really really very important to verify you have assigned the specification that is feature the model is included it will give like the expectation that the feature is more kind of right so if I can say when I say that my body type which is my body prediction is mostly the background data is not mostly dependent on the analysis but it is correct so data is better better mind that if our white hat is getting close to our white actions so what will happen if we like the essay you guys have done so I have done the essay I am just trying to explain that to myself so now I am going to call you like I will call by the name search right so by the name search is what we are trying to go and search the best then which find the actual time to take it up and then we get out of it right so that is one thing same thing we are trying to do in data we put one right you will see if it is getting white the setting closer to white put that right see white hat is very closer to white put the corner and so on right so what that thing is doing that thing is getting in new and iteration new right and then this we found the best value of data so does that takes a lot of time and resource yes it will because like if you are trying to do anything brute force anything which is hit and trial then it might be possible that you have hit on the first first time with the first thing but that probability is very less if you go and if like it is not my behind that the last like we try and after trying 10,000 add tissue to get to the perfect reaction then it can also happen that you get to the perfect score at the very last right so that is a really good position and really time really so that is why the normal equation is not me but we are finding the best possible way of being a they they were right whatever you tried to find the optimal value for the other we can put it to related to that feature so that you can get the possible white hat that is the close to white right so that is where normal equation came into the picture this thing so what happens is we have written extra so like that what is that right notice on the right this one is two rows and two columns right so see why we are taking time matrix and all just take time picture on all of it because matrix and linear algebra it is it is like super super important if you want to go inside linear algebra matrix now everything everything is like see what happens in matrix use space use coordinate right we try to find coordinate to like the entire space research is based on linear algebra in entire spaces because you are trying to find the point in station cannot no take a point with 10,000 distance at all you always set a coordinate right so in entire space research is based on linear algebra we say it as hyper plane so you don't call like 8 in all this second type of plane right we try to find a vector if you can have a magnitude or a refrigeration or something so entire terminology of this space is going to want to linear algebra and vector space you need right that is why it is really really important and in urethra it is called like core core of the net right so x transpose if we have let us say if we have matrix of speed cross 1 we can make it one cross that is the same let us take a cross 1, row and cross 1 cross 3, row and cross change so why we take x transpose is like we take x transpose that we go back that is the reason that we want like every column every of the entity of that x matrix which is the feature matrix to be multi-life right and there is a error down we can switch the coordinates and multiply somehow right matrix multiplication is only possible but n cross p is multiplied by 3 cross n right but we can transpose and multi-life right so that is one of the first equation that we have written why minus x beta right what that thing is can anyone tell you yes speaker is why I have like why I want to write it if you want to write it so see I don't want to move some this like otherwise you will lose the contact so try and understand like really in a slow format why I must be done okay so I have already written the equation why I what will be why is it was to x beta plus e error right so if I move x beta to this side then it will be by minus x beta is equal to e and we are doing what we want to do this multi-life as transpose to error right so understand this way that what happens okay as I tell that in any any space any coordinates any plane anywhere if I want to go from point a to point b what will be the shortest path but they will correct so for example I am going into a particular direction that will be a shortest path right so if my error at all is perpendicular to my feature that is the best possible scenario that I can write error on is very perpendicular if I have to go like from here to that pillar I will go straight right I won't go like this so if I have to make my features error comes to be minimized then I try to make my error perpendicular to the feature right whatever it is that means if let's say as much for example if I am having or say yeah so let's say if I am having feature x1 x2 x3 right so every feature is there in every prediction we will be having some error even e2 e3 right we have using big acts of what we are using big acts as a metric of x1 x2 x3 only right and we have using e if I write it at e then I am using the each error as one matrix right okay so that is what that is the vector point right so for example if I say I want to make my use that in the other prediction error then I will put my error that very perpendicular to those features right that means I can write x1 is perpendicular to e1 x2 is perpendicular to e2 that is the best case scenario right then like combining all these things I can write x be perpendicular to e right okay so if two vectors are perpendicular to each error their problem is 0 right so if two vectors are perpendicular to each error their dot product is going to be 0 this is the whole thing right x3 is equal to 0 this is the vector error and x is perpendicular to each error then xv dot e is the dot product of error this is going to be 0 right now I just multiply this remove this I will just tell you on this part see what is happening it is like xv to beta is equals to xv to I just expanded it I multiplied xt by minus xv x beta right then I have written xv y is there when to that side and xv beta get the question is the simple multi-line vector and this is predicted after you get it okay now we try to find beta right we want a random for theta that is what we are going to write so beta is there xv x minus 1 is what inverse inverse of their matrix and it is like so what we did I just multiplied it from x inverse both side right same of that x transpose x inverse both side by multiply so when I multiply it there then beta will be if I multiply x transpose x into x inverse x transpose then we get what identity matrix transpose to inverse multiply and we get identity matrix and if I multiply beta into identity matrix it will be down that is why I have written it down right now where x transpose is going to come multiplied with x transpose that is inverse then it is going to be but then we want the beta for example in any question what we want to find we keep it at right hand side and the other part is remaining that we keep it at left hand side so this is the answer to the formula equation right so if you see that just see this as an algorithm equation I wanted you some very talk if someone asked how did it and you will be able to say that I bought my error residuals to be as close as possible and if I am trying to be as close as possible then the best possible point of the distance is like perpendicular so I want my errors to be perpendicular to that feature is my error vector of perpendicular to my feature vector then then their content is going to be 0 I can write my error as this with beta then there from somewhere and the algorithm equation which is this is on the right now see so here you can find the optimal value of beta right so we are trying to find the value of beta which is optimal which will give the best prediction now we have that prediction so far in average I find the beta value 2 right there is a beta value 2 and my actual is let us say 100 and putting beta value 2 I get my prediction as 60 so is it a good prediction no but the thing is like the prediction is not good but this is the best prediction that I can get some distance right getting the optimal beta value doesn't mean that your prediction is also optimal right if it is not optimal that is why like if it was so easy it can get like beta value test the prediction and went it right you always have to e-pack i that if we have bought a beta of the one then we have bought a prediction on top of that optimal beta if that prediction is making sense of it is not we can say that we go to another algorithm or we try to like do another feature in any part of it or whatever it takes like to improve the prediction our end goal is to not to find the optimal beta our end goal is that we can get our optimal prediction optimal beta is something that we do not enter basically our timing brute force right we just put our optimal beta of this point 1 1 2 more average right but we are not trying to use so much computation very power and the more you use this to get like finding beta is self a task right so we don't want to spend time to find beta and this is auto one the prediction auto one the prediction is like this so that is why this is perfect in the representation we see that in a plain format or something this is a fit line for 4 points can I like will you want to take like 10 minutes 5 minutes break on the profit then I will continue on this because this is a match I try to already let you search but I don't think it will go into two steps 7 8 steps retain so I will solve it in front of you and then I will go ahead to get an idea of how the as well as performing it will post that will go ahead with production of the plane same thing right even this I am standing in a 3D plane or 2D plane it is a plane that my actual surface a ball is standing here right and my actual are here then the best distance of the ball will not be an auto or so on a distance to the partner it will be straight falling down on the plane right if I want my ball to fall down to the actual plane I won't throw it like this that it will go on a projection or a slam slide I just drop it so that is the perpendicular distance that I was talking about the features and the error which is there error should be all this perpendicular on the features yes correct correct correct see our equation correct equation correct our equation must be I add plusńst it is the right jeśli turn the right to the the edge but someone the i from the line we hit is big good question 하는 not available but see if why a appears there we are ready to and that's it on the bits until so let's have some value y hat, we got y hat, right? So if y hat is equal to y, then it is perfect prediction, right? But y we are seeing at y hat, does it is not equal to y, right? It is y predicted, right? So y predicted difference with y, this, we write it as this, but the actual equation is like this only. Some other which derives the predictions from the actual point, right? So if I want to get the best possible y. So that depends on e as well, that was the first part that we see, that to minimize the error, but after minimizing the error, this also depends, right? So if we have minimize the error, let's say error was 5, okay? So let's say 20 is there and let's say 5 and of 3 x star value 3 here, and this is beta and this is 5 and this is y hat, okay? And 20 is our actual value, the target, right? So this is 5, our error, okay? And if I am taking something, then our error, like my first rule is to minimize this error, right? And if I minimize this error, then I put something as a coefficient which will get close to 20, right? This is as a system multiply, I can give you, we try to multiply it with something, we try to assign that bit that will put my y hat closer to us. So there are two likes terms, we kind of minimize the error, error minimize the error, we are not decreasing our model also, then what does the sex be? So for number, I rank one point, right? As users like very, very, like below the branches, let's say this is not really useful, so for example what happens? Let's say practical scenario, you are trying to get the sampling prediction based on its details, right? So if you take, when there is a, in the market there is a huge correlation between its details and sampling, those one I think like 10% of the experience they are getting paid more, then they are getting paid more. And those were the structures are still starting here, they don't have less scale of the stack experience, right? So let us now talk about it, why if I like what does a sampling of one day can be like and then experience, I give the data like you for experience less, right? Then you know, sampling it looks like experience available, right? That is the same thing, my experience as a feature, who says its value if I don't give the same amount of weight as should that experience, right? So what I am doing, I am not making my model good at this focusing key, I have given some feature, now it has given us a error, let's remind the error of the time and focusing through that model, right? So I have been just to remind the errors from my hand and we have to get the most popular data, so that our model is focused, right? That goes, like both of them goes hand in hand. So the first part, the MXC that I was calculating was for showing that means where error is minimized when we are using the functionality, the second part here, while we are using the data optimization, this will find the optimal value of data that we can code that we can code that we can code that we can code that we can code that we can code that we can code that we can code that we are not, okay? So data is a position and you can put some value to it, so how you put it? You will try to put like 9 to 1,000, 2 to 2,000, and this way. So hit and drag will be there, so we will go ahead and keep on trying to like iteration approach. So there must be some way that we will find like we don't end up like most computation and resources of finding data, so that's why we come up with a normal equation that this is a formula, right? This will be the optimal data. That's what I'm saying, giving an optimal value of data will never guarantee your best prediction, right? It is just like we were trying to minimize error and we were choosing the best possible value of data to make the equation, thankfully, right? That is the priority, what do we take? It's still bad, the thing is like this one and the projection value point, right? So let's take like 5 minutes or 10 minutes, right? So we plan to change it to signature and so each Options is going to need a detail work. So you have to change the 않아요 value of that material, yes yes ja ja, all the change changes are very very important, we are not getting any changes. Okay? 1 2, this is the data coefficient, data is not equal to a second data age. If I give data 5, experience 1, then it will be 5 into 1 5. If I give the data 2 as 2 and height as 1 and height as 2, then it will 2 units. That means the height of an u is down from experience to value. That is the same thing. Think of it as a way. I will explain it to you like in this thumb, but yeah. Okay, take like 5 minutes or so, and then we will solve this one and then we will get an understanding. Max, it is like on a slightly higher side to the way on the max part. But it is just totally because that you know the intuition. If I now say that the conditional mean is there and I give you the same question 10, 20, 20, like you will be able to solve that mean square error easily. Now, yeah, that is it. Good day, K. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now this is my answer to our report on intuition by using the form of an application for this modem operation. intelligent assigned interface for an application for an application. About the signal control control. Okay. Now again, let me start with the Rs. I will start by using the Rs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 3, 3, 5 ok. This is the same example that we are using in this slide. So, we have hours and scores, right? We are taking one, two, three, four and score, one, three, three, five. So, what we are doing, what we are doing, first thing is like mean of x, which is x bar and mean of y, which is y bar. So, what it will be, 1 plus 2 plus 3 plus 4 divided by 4, which is 4, 3, 7, 2, 9, 10, 4, which is 2.5. And this will be 1 plus 3 plus 3 plus 5 by 4, which is going to be at 3, 3. Slide me like I was saying, slide me like I am not thinking. So, now we have taken x bar and y bar. Now, what we will do, this is the first step to calculate the mean, right? Then we will calculate s of x x, right? This thing, s of sorry. The second thing is, we will calculate s of x, y and s of x s, right? Y is important, s of x, y is important to calculate the slope. Slope is 1, s of x, y is important to calculate the slope. Slope is 1, s of x, y is important to calculate the slope. Slope means, how the y is getting valid in respect to x, right? If I change x, then how the y is getting valid? So, here, if I draw one table, let's say x, y and we already have this thing, x bar and y bar, okay? Then if I get a value of x minus x bar and y minus y bar, here. Like these are the columns, okay? I will put the values here, x, x has value 1, 2, 3, 4, y has value 1, pardon my name, 3, 3, 5, okay? x minus x bar is like what? 1 minus 1, 2.5, which will be 1 minus 2.5, no? x bar is 2.5, yeah. So, 1 minus 2.5, minus, correct? minus 1.5, okay? Then 2 minus 2.5, minus 0.5, okay? 3 minus 2.5, 0.5, which is in plus and 4 minus 2.5 plus 1. x minus y, okay? Same for y minus y bar, y is 1, 3, right? minus 2, 3, 3, 0, 0, then plus 2, right? So, this we have calculated x minus x bar and y minus y bar. So, what was s of x y? That means how x or y is dependent, right? s of x y was nothing, x minus x bar and 2, y minus y bar, that means it is a product of these 3, right? So, if I multiply minus 2 with minus 1.5, what I will get? No, if I multiply minus 2 into minus 1.5, 3, right? minus 0.5 into 0, 0. 1.5 into 2, 3, okay? Then it is sum of x and y, right? So, if we sum this, we will get 6, which is nothing but s of x y. We got 6, right? Now, the other thing is like s of x, okay? Which is nothing but this x minus s bar, k whole square, k sum, right? So, if I put it like this, it will be minus 1.5 whole square, plus 0.5 whole square plus, sorry, minus 1.5 whole square, plus 0.5 whole square plus 1.5 whole square, okay? What this will be coming? Kuchoga value, I will see in this light, but yeah. See, x minus x bar, the whole square, the sums, okay? Summage, it is coming to be 5, okay? So, when it is coming to be 5, I will write s of x x is equals to 5. We can calculate in the calculated also. So, now I have bought s of x y and s of x x. First, once like we have an entry of x, we have an entry of y, we have a feature, me, and I like this whole, me. Then we have seen like how our actual features are, they may be from the feature, me. Our actual score is the way we take from the actual, me, x minus x, me and y minus y, me. Then we have bigger product of x, minus x, me, into y minus y, me. And then some of the product is the base, some of x and y. So, x x is like, it is varying the residuals of the x. Then the s of x x and s of x. So, the slope, if you know slope, y is equals to m x plus c, right? So, m is the slope, right? So, m is what? m is nothing but s of x y divided by s of x x. What does it is? Right? That how my y is behaving with tons of x? Respect to s. That is the slope in r is right. That is why we have put it in two different terms. s of x y both combined and only what how my features are behaving. Right? So, if we do six upon five, then we will get some value, right? It will be 1.2, yes. Right? 1.2. So, we got our beta 1 coefficient, which is slope. If I write the equation x, y hat, only y bar is equals to beta naught plus beta 1 x bar. Y bar and taking the same type of thing we need here, need all the prediction, features of the prediction. So, this will be the equation. Now, I have got beta 1. Beta 1 is what? 1.2, which is beta 1. Now, I have got beta 1 here. I have x bar, I have y bar. I have it, right? We calculated x bar and y bar on top of it. We already got beta 1. Now, we can find beta 1. Right? So, beta naught will be this 1.2 into x bar, how much was that? 2.5, sorry. 2.5 plus this will be beta naught and y bar was 3, right? Then beta naught will be 0, correct? Beta naught comes to be 0. So, our equation finally becomes 1. Our equation finally becomes y bar is equals to 1.2 x bar. That's it, right? We will need beta, there is no other test. Now, if we are having no intercept on top of it, then what will do? Wait, till here it is clear, right? Intercept we are getting beta naught at 0, best fit line is this only, this equation. 1.2 x, we just know of, right? That r is twice residual sum of the square, and we will divide it by total sum of the square. Okay, the residual sum of the square is 1. Wait. So, the residual sum of the square is 1. I could not not get this first. This is our right, that we have the last step, right? We are trying to divide it. So, first, for the acne to calculate our resistance is, okay. So, what is that? From here you can see. Okay, the residual sum of the square is like 1.2. So, then total is 1. Total is 3.2. So, we are going to divide it by 1. Then, subtract it by 1. Right? Okay. So, that is the total sum of the square. So, the residual sum of the square is only minus 2. 4 is square. 0.4 is square. 0.4 is square. 2.4 is square. This is residual by 1. For me. But, 5 is my observation. Whatever it is. Okay. So, that is my residual. So, if I subtract it, what will I do? 2.4.4.4.8. Right? So, that is the same thing. And, the total sum of the squares is seen here. See? Our shift is 1. Right. So, total sum of the squares is 8. Because, we are taking B. Right? The residual sum of the squares is 8.2. And, the root. Right? Not not not. So, every day, 1.8 is okay. And, if we divide it, we get 1.9. As I said, our final answer. Then, what? Our final answer is, we get. Our final answer doesn't say that our model is 90 percent actually. Our final answer says that our model explains the 90 percent of the fluctuation that is happening. Okay. Our result doesn't guarantee that our model is 90 percent accurately. It says to that our model is 90 percent fluctually. Okay. And, 90 percent of the fluctuation, which is happening is explained here. Only 10 percent fluctuation is something that we cannot explain. Right? So, this is how the R square is going to be calculated. Okay? At the last one. And, then, if we are using R square, then the other. Forget this slide as of now. Then, this also. Let's see R square and its path also. Okay. So, what happens? Well, we don't see this. Why? I have a spy hat. Okay. The condition is there. Some condition will be there. And, yet, taking what? Each r I know matters this. The r I have to be the long equation. It's fine here. And, then, the DSS that we calculated here was with me. So, here that we have written about our RSS, because we have this. Because, yet, it has to be. We are taking it with respect to me. But, what is going on here? RSS R is right. RSS is the only data prediction at the Meet Global Prediction Panel. It is false. Try to understand it in this way. For example, if I add some other feature of the model, and then I get to it RSS. Will the RSS 1 degree decrease? Never decrease. It will never decrease. It will always keep on increasing. It's once the value is there. It will always keep on increasing. It will never decrease. So, for example, if I pull it. R is square as, let's say. So, see this equation. I just read RSS. So, we have RSS 1, RSS 1, RSS 1, RSS 1, RSS 1. First, when this is my point is RSS and RSS. And, this is going for a population. And, please open both features. So, for example, if we are having the add-unless feature of our model. The T value will decrease. Right? And, this T value will increase. Then, please subtracting both from F. And, N minus 1 is also already there. So, for example, what will happen is, we get an RSS.8, let's say. That's all here. I think that will be more good. So, for example, if we get RSS as point A. So, that equation was adjusted RSS. What was that? 1 minus RSS. Okay. In two, N minus 1 divided by N minus P minus 1. Right? So, if I say if I am having N is equal to 100. That we are having 100 rows. And, P is equal to two for the first five. That we are only having two features. Okay? So, what happens? RSS will give point A value. Okay? And, if we add unnecessary features of the top of it, RSS will never justify what is on to the unnecessary features. So, what? But adjusted RSS will give a penalty to every feature that we are going to add. Why gives a penalty? Because, if you are adding features and features to the model, models getting added features and getting complex. Right? So, RSS will also take care that R model goes to a liquid and goes by a complicated understanding. So, when it will go ahead and add some of the features again and again and again, one model. So, RSS will take care that you have added on the feature. Now, I will impose some penalty to that new features. Okay? So, what will happen? 1.8 sorry, 1 minus 0.8 will be 0.2. Okay? And, N minus 1 will be 99. Then, N P minus 1 will be what? 97. 100 minus 3. Right? 97. Right? Yes, try and open a calculator and calculate this maybe. What? Come on. 0.2 into 99. Then, I will do my 90. 0.0. 0.2. 0.2. 0.2. F. How it is coming? 0.2 0.4. Okay. 0.2 0.4 10. minus 1, sorry this value is what 0.204 and then we are subtracting it with 1 minus 0.204, 0.79 or 0.796 ok 0.796, so what happens the R square which was originally 0.8 now it is 0.796 because we added 1 C cell, let us say we increase the feature value to 3 now just try to put the same thing do 0.0.2 do on the calculator 0.2 into 99 divided by 96 if we are adding P ok let us see if it decreases or not 0.206 right, so it will be 0.794 ok, so it decreases right, so what happens in R square and then it is R square is like someone you can ask like to move to dress more when R square or in this way R square, but here where answer is like R square, this you have notation that this much data has been justified this is this variation like for example this one is 1.9 then my 90 percent of the model variation of the particular position the prediction is just keep I could only represent the model of the model of the set right, but R square is where I present the thing that I have on the let us say if I have the features which is for example I predict this I will set this method I have adding my age ok this means 3 ok, but I added another feature like height, still color something I better it does not mean sense, but that feature is still there right, it will increase the model of the city R square will never do a parity to the additional features, you can have this not like you have an unnecessary features and make the model no context, so that is why we use adjusted R square is just because that we want to give the product people each and every upcoming features, so the model is like really good like it, if for example what will happen if I see that my R square is point 8 and if I am adding another feature is my my listed R square falls to 0.76 then I added one more feature is falls to 0.794 right, so I can see that there is not much for the later from R square to adjusted R square this really less for if it is a most like for and for go with the my listed feature then I can choose the R square, but if it is not much for the it is almost in the middle it will choose that score, but while the R square is not valid that is for my region like it will not be post identity and this is a key if you want to do this model I will show you that you get to know that quite because how you get the model is ready, I am not necessarily known that is not this way to answer and this will have to be taken here of the features it will also not like how many features like it is like model right, it is a short time. So for example if there are two models one model is using two features and it is getting a score of 0.7 and it says the other model is using two features and it is getting a score of 0.7 and I need then this is the first model I cannot get it R square right, I will only get it in this way R square like this model as you can only do it just keep a form better this model has to score 5 different still are performing better right. So for scale of comparison R square will not have a ability to judge how many features you could get I just get R square will have that ability to do it ok that is not quite fine. Now coming back to the slide I jumped to slide see this is this is the R square only used to go through but it has to go from basically, but it has to go through the slide. So that is the same distance now coming back to this slide projection sorry prediction is a prediction right. Some of the like one of the girls asked me like in this class of the class section A that what is the distance written prediction and pro-re�ation right. So this is the answer that prediction is a projection only that why it is a prediction is like for any case that I was talking about you need any case the shortest distance to our actual prediction is like a perpendicular now. So for example like if I draw plane hair pardon my drawing but if I draw plane hair like this this is my actual and this line is my predictor. So what I want to do if I have a predicted line like this ok predicted points like this P2 right is this a good way no I will always want my P2 to travel in this trajectory right. First I want to travel the P2 in this trajectory to come perpendicular to that actual point. So that it is at a shortest possible distance for that actual point right. Now why my P2 has came to that point right. Now the only thing is I just minimize that perpendicular distance right. My object is to minimize that perpendicular distance I do not want to travel I just want to reduce the maximum right that is my goal itself. So that is why I was giving that ball example before the point. So it is like I will have a ball and I want to draw my two display this plane is my source of truth right that plane is the actual prediction. I have a ball hand right. So if I want my ball to be drawn that plane I will throw the ball like this and it will travel source above the plane and then touch it will like go all the way long if I go the trajectory to go all the way long the best possible thing is why I brought it. Now this magnitude is less that's why we told that the best possible scenario for any prediction is like perpendicularly away like even the back of the two is slightly inspected to the paper area right. But if your prediction is not even perpendicular right. Then you have to do the same math using these adjustments like e- Dude is not perpendicular to actual right. So you have to first give you where can you try out short Bendis greatest this is the whole thing our prediction is nothing but the prediction one out of the actual range right perpendicular polynomial. Infrastructure artors Perpendicular developed in this discussion From many points to a light or play Perpendicular needs to have a better choice Perpendicular will, in the occurs of short answer So in this talk , its to result of some results and now this like okay. This is something which is related to section 5 going forward same analogy I told you like we have this one day that we have to use like for them both models, for others or for others and then again we show that we will not work on it something else has been and so now what we are trying to do is we will do it like we saw that XD at X right which is X at X transpose we are trying to do what is playing it X has a very large feature we saw in terms of penically like that if this is a if I use high square that is I understand this if I use R square for model 1 if I use R square I have to do that it is right to come fair yeah like those are square can be compared model 1 and model 2 which is better no I do that R square for model 1 can give a screen share in one of my class R square for model 1 is really point 9 R square for model 2 is really point 8 but R square doesn't even know that how many features I am using for model 1 how much of the service right and R square model 2 also doesn't know how many features is using model 2 but if I replace for model 1 model 2 I have split R square then I see that point 9 for model 1 is because I am model 1 is using 20 features and point 8 5 for model 2 is just from 2 features right so what will happen I obviously will want to look it gives me a complexity that okay my deviation was 0.05 percent but I have reduced my model of flexibility to some of my features to 2 features so I am saving my resources and memory without even much more providing up and school at age okay that's why we use first form I just pronounced that by giving me the same answer but nothing is presently cost practical point everything is related to money everything there is no pay new one to achieve a good result without making dollars as a matter of fact everyone who is doing things like even if you buy that study you want to buy that you know right I am somewhere else then so let's see if it comes up no matter how good the model is no matter how good the model is I made a model is that super good case with problems that on the initial data I am able to do a very good prediction and I mean 100 dollars all that in that prediction and my course of making that prediction is not a good model when will be a good model no right I want to start in an intersection where I can monitor it right so that's easy goes there like this close form is not only the solution with the open board or the right as I told that as they are kind of at right so I have very much large teacher that is a 10,000 teachers for us right so then if I do a transpose of the 10,000 problems to row that will or actually take like OQ3 a few of the teachers right so by the time for 10,000 teachers then we take Bimo of 10,000 to keep dying right so if we take a guide for some duration that we will transpose only right so that is one thing first and foremost we can large teachers are there okay then B which is the number of teachers which is not singularity so for example two teachers like this will be a concept of multi-courtney and it will be coming like later in the class so multi-courtney is like I will give you an idea what is happening so let's say age and experience we have to teach how so let's say someone who is having like 32 years of age might have a chance that we have got like 10 years of experience starting at a age of 21 so age and experience are poor very much which are going higher than like other do you want to example also in my brain sense right so that being in the teacher that is very poor in here when one teacher is polluting the other teacher then we have X times rule X do not exist the most of X do not exist the teachers are polluting that this has more than a certain number of X times rule do not exist X times rule do not exist this is that one thing we have to do not experience because just in the year of our best hobby of the world the situation something is pretty zero number the prediction is that it is going to be a making a decision poverty that after crossing this boundary of only to this public after that we know at this boundary of all the information so this entire thing the solution is meant for a certain time you cannot have a particular solution which is applicable for all the models so this is the limitation that why we do not use closed-con solution first and foremost that we do not want let it to be happening with them said that we are having a very large teacher it will take things more then we are going to want to be with something on a teacher that few teachers are there they are having shared in the same story more or less the same story then their transpose will be there but in words do not exist then there is no form right or the situation is not even to have that closed-con or not also not okay yeah gradient is the one that will be maybe coming after this one to each after we will have the gradient is and have to see each other find that and yeah this is the fun part let's go into other we have seen this one also same thing that I do not do the transpose study why it will happen there are as far as the red one are as good as far as the digital field so as we are getting more and more feature about the ice-covering very slowly but it will increase and will never go decrease because it has got no sense that we are having features and it is not getting happening but the real life we have seen is not defined as we are using these features for the access if we are using these features the model this is not enough okay I want to give the score but I also want to make the model complexity at a certain level I do not want to compromise with the model of the city so I smartly decrease the score so I just did our studies like more lab okay so it is not like very considering to us the atom wise you can add your adding 10,000 features not only feature will make sense right so yeah this is our score that we discussed now I will share you the pipeline for this in the drive let's say question this question is there if I duplicate a feature called an X-A or happens to X transpose X-T first like what will happen if I duplicate the feature let's let's say there is one feature and I duplicated the feature we let's say how would I say let's say total strength of the class is 200 present is I have given you present 150, say features okay even if you get to know one you will be able to answer the other so if that is the case then this thing that involves this this will be a singular that is right because the feature is the right because singular that is there is a reverse of the singular that is the case that is the so this will not exist at all this is that so if it is not exist that means what the X transpose X singularity is created that I have a equation of the sort of the normal equation says it will not exist that we see in the limitations right that is not it and yeah now just try to read this like price is equal to 2.1 0.85 and 0.3 distance minus 0.3 distance how you will tell me like I just want to pronounce it or something like this is something like I wanted to add this for example they have a different view this like this is a different kind of present we need one to see your patient is like this is not like I really can be killed because of like wrong video like this but how do you do this right again you think coming down to the first point is keeping one feature constant right so by not only the distance one second right then why you will increase it by a rule will increase my price price 0.85 that's this is how we get away okay keep it rules that constant why you will increase my distance will increase the price price 0.3 that's right that's 2.1 is not really right if you please please let's see again what the other so that is how we intercept our position keeping one feature as constant a single unit increase in my feature will increase my bundle by position right so for should I get it away sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry so I have to increase the value this see that less than higher so that is the way that increase increase my rules for strength increase the distance by 1 that the price will be decreased by 1.3 that's okay see this entire two will go into collinearity multi collinearity and pieces also there so the longer and two such a code after what decision so this is one thing and let's see if the we are at the last so this is the question the reason is why I have default loss that reason which I showed you the first practical reason is why we are using absolute will be squishing it with the rule that is a program that will cancel the map rule but it is why error is like generally good differential but remember it has absolute acceleration that it will be getting into minus x for x less than 0 plus x for x greater than 0 but if we have that like x is 1 then we can differentiate it to 2 x even if that's the value 0 we get 0 right so we will need to move right first factor second will need statistical that if we are having a normal distribution of the error is distributed not for example starting from plus 2 to minus normal distribution in that case our assumptions like our maximum likelihood will be R minus y that will be close close to our prediction so what we are going to do that if we are having R like before it loss as msc which is minus y then our best prediction will be at a condition of the that will be the only prediction that will be the minus y of the msc second question we will be writing the normal equation normal equation was what? beta whatever was I will be the x less force x inverse x i to be by hat so that was that was the equation that we derived from very very nice but perpendicular distance not for 0 put it in the line what we are going to do then what does it mean why is a prediction we already saw that only to why hat is a prediction that means any prediction is a prediction means that we want our prediction to be at the perpendicular distance to our actual plane whatever we have this 3D plane 4D plane 7 and after but the end goal is when we want to at least have our prediction at a perpendicular distance. Slant first in the prediction itself is at a slant distance then it is to like very bad not even correct like at least if it is in a like this is a actual plane as it my pen is there okay if it is like a parallel like perpendicular distance on the plane then I will try so pressing on reducing the magnitude I can build the plane closer and it will get closer to the actual time but if I might keep playing or like pen is like there like a corner or two then I have to bring it that I did straight up off there but if the point is there I have to bring it perpendicular just this point and then I have to block okay so my projection is something which is perpendicular first forget everything the cylinder at the best possible distance from point A to point B is like perpendicular same thing happens to model also the best possible series then it can be perpendicular to the temperature and then you try to make a difference first and by R is by different reasons then you like the feature because it has no feature for it is only one minus RSS residual sum of sprites and actual sum of sprites which is me total sum of sprites for it so when it is not knowing that how many features are getting deleted into the model so it will never get this it will always be on a created once you are correct by another file is by your calculate it will increase increase increase okay and why can't we always use close ones is right first thing when we are having smart features right a very few list of features that X transpose to X will be very competition very happy right it will take a lot of time a lot of course second thing is like similarity where we are having same features same thing there are X transpose X kind of worse will not exist similar matrix inverse relative right that thing at the third most important first after similarity for logistic radiation models for some models which are not having like linear aggregators there we do not even need the close talks are we need it three on the last class we have already discussed that there was some topic where we saw that this table is not a flat of three years after that so one every other down any solution we have not done other one for other own we have the other own matrix to judge okay so this is one and the same same under the Washington is Washington is nothing but a normal distribution for say we make it as a Washington Washington that is not the advisor of mean spider and maximum likelihood that that we saw is many times that this is the condition of the X okay that we already saw will not ask now I think this is done normally we already answered this why the position you are in this is learned the normal matrix form then see the first part is done normal addition of the position that yeah so I think this was it the next okay the session 4 is assumption and then I think wait session 5 is gradient descent and session 6 is vice-variance okay so 4 5 6 7 this will be going to be really in fact 8 is also going to be really in question right 4 5 6 7 8 I think this thing is these things are going to be really interesting one I talk about the question that the session will be going to see some different algorithms 80% here or this is going to be something then it is going to like little bit of match to the number of 8 pieces I just now till here any kind of a now or anything which is not clear what we saw today we saw the first thing that we can represent the matrix had the speeches then we saw the this is why we told it as and P and P minus 1 with the and P plus 1 which is I am taking the lattice form then multiply it then the equation of this we are seeing that what mean square enemies we saw with the example we saw a practical definition then we saw this right with an example that we saw that actually if the square error is mean in square error we are taking the conditional mean and then we derived this equation then we saw the as well that like today it was some all the normal as well it is any doubts anything that did not make sense or I should be interested he get it shall be dropped then anything look get it now it is not like going on or something like that get it exactly like if there is any question in the example it will be that correct one give that question it will give first and foremost in I also don't know that what is the question in the exam so I am like I am connecting with chit one is there for other match right so I think like he has already drafted some of the assignments he was talking to me he has already drafted some of the assignments links I was not able to access the curriculum and so I will try and go and access those assignments then I can give you those assignments maybe to have a vote that how it is going then if I see those assignments then I will get an intuition that what kind of a question most probably I think there is no mid term for this no mid term right directly I tell okay 10 to 2 like you guys I have to study half of it it is okay no okay cool thank you thank you thank you