Please come forward. Please ensure that there are no seeds empty in front of you. Everyone please be quick. Stand down. Move ahead. Quickly. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. Please ensure that there is no seed empty in front of you. So, we will start with a problem and then we will discuss the problem that we left and solved on the last class. So, we will be solving a very famous interview question which now you should be able to solve only using the concepts that we have covered as of now in the class. This is a question which has been asked many times in companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, etc. The question says that you have a matrix, you are given a matrix and in this matrix you can find three type of entities. You can have a zero which represents an empty set. Zero means there is nothing in that set. You can have one which represents a fresh orange. And you can have two which represents a rotten orange. So, for example, in this case you may have let's say a fresh orange here, little fresh orange here, then you have another fresh orange. Two means rotten orange. So, in this case you have let's say two or let's say this is also fresh orange. So, you have two oranges which are rotten. You have a number of fresh oranges and there are some sense that are empty. Now, every single day any orange that is kept next to a rotten orange will also become rotten. So, all the oranges that are sharing a boundary with an already existing rotten orange will turn to rotten. You have to tell in how many days all the oranges will turn rotten. And if that is not possible then you return by this one. Is the question clear? So, in this case what should be the answer after how many days are you going to get all the oranges turned into rotten oranges? Every day any orange that shares a boundary with a rotten orange means that shares a boundary with two will also be turned to two. How many oranges are going to turn rotten after day one? Which all oranges will turn rotten? So, currently we have these two as rotten. Any orange that shares a boundary with them is going to turn rotten which means we will be having this one. This one, this one and which all? Any other orange that is going to turn rotten other than these three? You can tell me the role 10 column number. Second row? Fourth column, this one right. So, for this rotten orange these three are also going to turn into rotten. So, all of these are going to turn into rotten oranges right after day one. Is it not going to turn into rotten? So, expert discussion two oranges are sharing boundaries if they are kept in any of these four directions. So, after day two this is going to be the state of this matrix. All of these are then going to turn into rotten which means these oranges are now going to become two. So, after day three which all oranges are going to turn rotten. So, now after day two we are going to have this one and this one because these are the only two fresh orange that are sharing a boundary with and this one. So, three oranges which are sharing boundary with already existing rotten oranges. These three are also going to turn into rotten and then after one more day we will have all the oranges turned into rotten oranges. So, after day three the only remaining orange, only remaining fresh orange is also going to be turned into rotten. So, in three days in this matrix all the oranges are going to turn into rotten oranges. So, now is the question here you have to tell after how many days all the oranges are going to turn into rotten and if that is not possible, when will that not be possible? If there is no rotten orange present then they will never turn rotten. Is there any other condition when this one will be possible? Then. So, I will not write it by empty. If we have a setup where there are rotten oranges but the fresh oranges are surrounded by empty spaces. In that case the rotten oranges are not going to turn the fresh orange into rotten. For example, if you have let us say these rotten oranges but you have a lot of empty spaces and you have these fresh oranges. Now these fresh oranges are never going to share a boundary with the rotten oranges. In this case you are going to return minus one. Is that clear? Is there even clear with the problem statement? Let us think about how can we solve this enough efficiently? If you have any information or if you can make it. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. I will not be able to answer that question. Is a given term? Is a given term thinking about the solution? Yes. I would want to reiterate over what we discussed in the last class. If you are unaware of what we are doing in the class. If you do not know the problem statement. If you do not know what exactly I will be discussing. Then 10 marks from your overall score will be deducted. You already have a student whose marks have been deducted. So please ensure that you are being attention in the class. So if your laptop is discharged, if it is not working, that is not an issue. Is that clear? So in this question, if you see it carefully. You have some rotten oranges every single day. Every orange that shares a boundary with an rotten orange. Any of the rotten oranges is going to get turned into rotten. Which means, if we try to visualize this as a graph. Something similar to what we did in the last class. This is the type of graph that we have. We have these nodes which are connected to each other. And they are connected if the value is 1 or 2. For example, here you have a 0. So that means nothing exists here. There is no connection. Here if let's say you have a 0. So that means this connection is not there. If there is a 1 or a 2, that means they are connected to each other. Now all the tools. All of their direct connections have to turn rotten. It very nicely. Which means if let's say in my graph. I have these oranges. If I simply arrange it in a way so that I see all the tools at once. All the tools are rotten. And any orange that is directly connected to any of the tools is also going to get turned into rotten. Which means all the direct connections of all the tools are going to turn rotten right after table. What will happen after day 2? All of their connections. All the connections of these have to turn rotten. In day 2 and there can be cycles. There can be nodes which are connected to multiple rotten oranges. But all of that is okay. All the direct connections of tools are going to turn rotten the first day. All of their connections are going to get going to turn rotten. The next day and so on. This algorithm is this. This is bread for such. We are starting from us. In this case the only difference from what we discussed in the last process. That last class we had one single source route. In this case we are starting the bread for such from a set of source. So we have a multi source case. You can assume that all of these rotten oranges are connected to an imaginary node. And then this becomes your actual source. But that is not required. In your BFS you can directly insert all of the rotten oranges at once in the first time. And then you keep popping all of them one by one. Keeping certain all of their neighbors if they have not been visited yet. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So you need a cube. In that queue you will have to push up here because you need coordinates. I am saying. And first you are going to do an iteration over the matrix. You will put all of the tools along with your coordinates in the queue. And then inside the while loop that we had written in the last class. The exact same while loop is going to be there is just that these are not nodes. These are pairs. I engine. Every time when you pop out of here you are going to insert all of their valued neighbors. All the neighbors which are supposed to be inside the matrix. And then you will keep incrementing the distance every time. Every time whenever you are inserting something the distance is going to be parent's distance plus one. And you also have to maintain this visited set or a visited matrix where you will keep marking these nodes these cells as this. If you have visited every any cell that means you have already found the shortest distance or the minimum amount of time in which that cell is going to turn from. So no need to visit that again. Is that clear? Yes or no? So will you guys be able to implement this? Correct. You have to start with all the rotten words first. Now the question is how do we know whether all the fresh oranges are going to turn rotten or not? Correct. Very good. So in the first iteration where you are going to insert all the tools in the queue in the same iteration you also maintain a count of all the fresh orange. Once your algorithm this execution ends you count how many or you can simply maintain a count here as well. How many oranges are turning rotten in this algorithm? And you simply match that count with the initial count that you had counted. If that count matches that means all the oranges have turned rotten. If there is a mismatched that means some of the oranges are going to be. Is that clear? Yes or no? Okay. So the question that we left unsolved in the last class was this question by the way the rotten orange question in this question also we are doing nothing but finding the minimum possible distance. Because the answer depends on what is the minimum distance of any tool from all the ones and we are then eventually getting the maximum of all of those minimum distances the maximum of those minimum distances is becoming over answer. So that is the since the minimum distance was required that's why we use BFS. We started using if we started with a DFS. DFS does not guarantee minimum distance. Once you once you visit a cell that you are not going to visit the same cell again. So whatever distance you have you are going to go ahead with that and that distance might not be the minimum possible distance. That is why we use BFS but can we use BFS in all type of minimum distance questions? Yes or no? Yes? BFS assumes that all direct connections are at the same distance but is that going to be true in practical scenarios? No. Every edge is going to have a different weight that weight might be representing distance that weight might be representing time that it takes for you to travel in that point. So even for all the direct connection the edges might be having different weights. And in that case the assumption that BFS takes that all of them are at a distance when that feels. So how do we solve this question? You have a graph and in this graph edges have different weights. The only thing that is given to us is that the weights are going to be positive. We are looking for the minimum distance of all the nodes from a given source node. So suppose if one is our source node we want to find the minimum distances of all the other nodes from this source node. That is what we are able to do in BFS. Everything that is connected directly is at a distance one. Everything which is a second degree connection is at a distance two. Everything is hurting. The connection is at a distance three and so on. So when you are able to think of a solution for this using BFS. No? Yes? So you can just like for the first view that we just add the node and the node. We just maintain a priority because that is the minimum distance of the edges of it. So basically we just material get a assumption. We go to class that maintain that distance that weight and then we in a priority which is sort of on the basis that we are including only those ones that are minimum of that. And then we go into that direction. Correct absolutely correct very good. So BFS is that these two are going to be at a distance one. And then that is what we are doing in BFS. However these two are going to have different weights in a practical scenario. Let us say as a weight of N, this as a weight of N. Can we say that for reaching 4 there can be many parts. There can be a path through this or there can be a path which is coming out from here. There can be N number of parts possible to reach a given node from this source. But can we say that the shortest of all of those parts is going to be this one. Yes or no? Because from this node there are only two edges that are coming out. And the one which has this smaller weight is taking us to this node which is 4. So if there exists any other path that is definitely going to have a weight more than 3. Because even this size has a weight more than 3. So if you keep adding more edges the weight is going to increase in future. It will now not reduce because all the weights anyways are going to be greater than 0. So can we say that to reach 4 this is the shortest possible path yes or no? One of you agree with that? Yes or no? Which means that we have found the shortest path to reach 1 or 2 nodes. Now let us extend this same thing. Now we have an edge coming out from 1 which has a weight of N which can take us to 2. And we have another edge coming out from 4 which has a weight of 2. And it can take us to 3. Now the answer for 4 has been registered as 2. Now we have 2 edges right. We have an edge which is taking us to 2. We have an edge which is taking us to 3. And we say out of these 2 this definitely is going to be shortest distance to reach 3. Yes or no? So we are going to include 3 as well and what is going to be the distance in which we can reach 3. That distance is going to be a little bit longer. So we are going to include 3 as well and what is going to be the distance in which we can reach 3. That distance is going to be the distance of the source node right from where we are reaching 3 plus the weight of distance. So this comes out to be 5. Is this making sense? Yes or no? Next which all edges are going to be there? So now 3 has also been included. So from 3 there is an edge coming out which is having a weight of 6. And there is another edge that is having a weight of 15. So now which edge should be included in the answer which node can be marked as visited? 2. What should be the answer for this? Which edge should be considered? So now we have this, this and this. We have an edge from 1 to 2 which is having a weight of n. We have an edge from 3 to 2 which is having a weight of 6. We are also having an edge from 3 to 7 which is having a weight of 15. So which should now be included in the answer? This is we can see how many ways can we reach 2 right? What is the number of ways in which we can reach 2? There are 2 ways right? Either you can reach from here. So since this is the source node the answer can be marked as 0. So if you are reaching from here then the distance is going to be 0 plus 10. And if you are reaching from here using this edge and what can be the distance? 11. So which one should we consider? 10 is small level right? So we are not going to include this edge but we will include this and the answer for 2 now becomes 10. Is that making sense? This one node. Similarly now the moment you include this which means we have found the shortest distance in which? 2 can be reached from 1. The moment 2 becomes part of the answer the moment 2 is marked as visited. We will be adding more edges in our consideration. So now you have 5 which can be reached from 2 with a weight of 7 and then 2 and 3 are already there and that's it. Now which edge should be included? Now we have 7 that can be reached from 3 and we have 5 which can be reached from 2 at a distance of 7. Which one should we include it out? 5. 5. So what is the distance in which we can reach 5? 17. 10 plus 7 17 and what is the distance in which we can reach 7? 5 plus 20. These are the only options that we have out of them whichever is smaller is going to be part of the answer. So we can say that 5 can be reached at a distance of 70. For 5 the answer is going to be 17. We will never be able to find a path which is shorter than 70 because any other path is going to have more distance. Because more edges are going to be there so it will be the weight is only going to increase. The moment we add this we get another edge. We have another edge which is taking us to 6 and the distance here is 2. Now we again have this which can be reached at a distance of 20 or we have this at 90. So which one should we take? 6 because this is shorter distance. So the answer for 6 becomes 90. The moment we have this we are going to have the edges connected to 6. Now if you see we are doing a kind of BFS only right. In BFS what we do is you start from a source node, you use a data connection, the data connection and so on. Now in this case the only thing that we are changing is that we started from the source node. We added both of them but we are prioritizing based on the distance. We are not considering both of them to be equal. We are checking which one has a smaller distance. Add all the neighbors of them. So mark this as listed add all the neighbors of this. And then inside of a queue all the edges only loads that we have out of them whichever is having the smallest distance. We will be taking that out. So otherwise even to understand that now we are not going ahead with first in first out order. We have prioritizing based on the distances. Even if this was inserted first it did not got popped out earlier. We first popped this out. We first considered this. Then we considered this. So second level node was considered before a first level. Which clearly means that the first in first out order is not being followed which means this time we do not need the conventional queue. Even if you are using an array and you are creating over that array every single time in order to find the shortest distance node. That is when you just solve the problem for us. Does that make sense? So now the moment you add six you get 9 added and the distance here is 3. So again we have two options. Either we add this distance of 20 or we add this distance of 20 to 22. So which one should we include it now? Now we are going to include this because this is offering us smaller. So the distance here becomes 20. And the moment we add this we get another option which is 8 which is present at a distance of 20 from here. Which means now in the next iteration. Either we can have this distance of 40 or we can have this distance of 22 which one should we keep? 22. So we are going to add this node and the distance becomes 22. And the moment we add this all the edges which are coming out from this will now become part of the consideration. So there is only one edge which is taking us to 8 and the distance is 1. So now we have two options. Either we join 8 from here at a distance of 40 or from here at a distance of 20 to 23. So now the distance for 8 becomes 20. The moment all of the nodes have been listed we can stop the node. Does this make sense? Yes or no? Is the approach making sense? This is the intuition making sense. It is nothing but BFS. But instead of going with the conventional order of source first degree connections, second degree connections. What we are doing is we are starting from source. Then we are only considering out of all the first degree connections. We are only considering the one which is present at the smallest distance. And we are adding their nables. And then out of all the edges that we have all the remaining first degree connections. All the second degree connections of the chosen node out of all of them which have a easily smallest distance. We will consider that. Is that making sense? So let us take a graph and let us try to do a dry run of this approach and try to figure out what should be the smallest distance for all of these nodes. So let us take a graph and let us try to figure out what should be the smallest distance for all of these nodes. And then out of all the first degree connections of the chosen node out of all of them which have a easily smallest distance. So this is the graph that you have. Now you can start with one as the source node. And you have to figure out the shortest distance from one to all the other nodes that we have. So let us take a graph and let us try to figure out what should be the smallest distance for all of these nodes. And then out of all the first degree connections of the chosen node out of all of them which have a easily smallest distance. So let us take a graph and let us try to figure out what should be the smallest distance for all of these nodes. And then out of all the first degree connections of the chosen node out of all of them which have a easily smallest distance for all of these nodes. So let us fill this array. So let us fill this array of size 9 with the shortest distances. Since we are starting from one we can assume that the distance from one to one is going to be 0. Now what you have to do is you have to do the exact dry run of what we have discussed. So that you understand the approach. The purpose here is not to figure out whether you are able to get the correct shortest distance or not. I am sure all of you will be able to do that. The purpose is to do a dry run of what we have just discussed. Start from resource node, consider only these edges which are coming out from here. Consider the shortest one and then include the edges coming out from there and so on. You can actually do something like this. You can maintain a space where you are keeping all the edges that are under consideration right now. And you pick the one which has the smallest distance out of this space. Initially in the first five nations since we are starting from one. I have listed down all the nodes along with their distance. You have to consider the one which is smallest out of this which means in a regular BFS we used to pop out whichever is the first encircle tool. Here we will not pop out the first encircle tool. We will pop out based on these distances whichever is the smallest value that should be popped up. If this was an array you will iterate over this, you will figure out whichever is minimum and you pop that out and then you add their corresponding units. Eventually since this is going to be BFS we start with only resource node. Initially there is only one node. Once you pop this out you insert this. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. You can also use the node to pop out the first encircle tool. We were trying to figure out the shortest distance. We are starting from one. We will do it in the exact same way as we run the PFS. We have some type of queue or array where we are going to insert all of these nodes along with their distances. So initially we start with inserting the source node. So we have the node one and the distance of the bug is zero. I am also maintaining an answer array where initially the distance of the source node is zero all the other distances are infinity because we do not know what is the distance. So first step that we do in BFS is pop out and whichever node we are popping out we insert all the neighbors all the direct connections. So the direct connections of one are two. The distance of two is going to be one's distance which is zero plus the weight of the edge from one to two which is four. Then we insert the node four with a distance of eight. Then we insert the node seven with a distance of two. If it was a regular queue in that case we would have popped this out. But in this case we want to prioritize the one which has the smallest distance. So out of these which one has the smallest distance seven has the smallest distance. So we can say that out of these now the next to be popped out is this and for seven this has to be the answer. At least we have a number better than what we earlier had which is infinity. So for seven the answer is going to be and at the same time we can mark seven as this one. Seven the answer now becomes two which means now we are going to add all the neighbors of seven. We have a distance of this plus the weight of these edges. So seven is connected to which all nodes seven is connected to one but since once is marked as as visited we do not really need to insert it. We already have found a smaller distance for one. So we are going to insert two along with a distance of two plus one which is three. Then we are going to insert four which is going to have a distance of how much two plus three which is five. And then we are going to insert eight with a distance of six. So we have eight with a distance of six. Now we have all of these entries out of these which one is the smallest weight. This one is having the smallest weight. So now we iterate over all of them we figure out which one is minimum and we then mark this node as visited and the weight for two becomes whatever we have inside the cube. So this becomes three. In the moment we get this we are going to add all the un-visted node which are connected to two. So we have one which is already marked as visited. We have seven already marked as visited. So we are now going to add three and eight in the cube along with a distance of three plus five and three plus nine. Is that making sense? So now inside this cube you are going to add three comma eight and eight comma five. Which one is going to be popped out next? So this one has also been popped out. Now again out of all of these the minimum weight is with this option. So we are going to now pop out two along with a distance of four. But do we need to update the weight of two? We already have a smaller weight right? So the weight of two has been decided to be three. The one that we are popping out is having a weight of four. So it is useless pop out in node. The next that we are going to pop out is four comma five. Four with a distance of five. Is four visited yet? No. Four is not marked as visited as of now. So that means this is the first time we are getting a smaller weight for four. So fours weight now becomes five. And the moment we pop this out we are going to explore all the un-visted neighbors and then we are distance of five plus the weights of this. This makes sense. Is there any way we will do follow this? Now my question is that if we are iterating over this list again and again in order to find the minimum, then itself is going to take order and time complexity. Is there a data structure that can return as the minimum in very optimal time complexity? We can make use of a priority queue. Are you familiar with what is a priority queue? How many of you are familiar? That's it. You must have studied priority queue in OS, right? And there is a priority base study here. Then a priority queue is what if you the next job that has to be then by the operating system. So priority queue has nothing to do with the queue or the first one, first type of arrangement. A queue generally is created using linked list or using arrays. Priority queue is a kind of tree. It is a kind of binary tree which is stored in the form of array. So structurally priority queue is nothing but a tree where the root load is always going to be the smallest or the largest element depending on what type of structure you are creating. However, in order to ensure that all the operations are efficient, these values are stored in an array. Do you guys know how to store a tree in an array? Yes, how can we do that? It is a bit traversal. So you can use any type of traversal and you can do a serialization of all the nodes of tree. Our priority queue is stored using the level order traversal which means the first element is always going to be the root node. Then the next two are going to be left and right type. Then the remaining are going to be the children on the next level. That is how we store a priority queue in the array. So that the first element of this array is always going to be your smallest element. And then the deletion is also going to be order of log n because the deletion is going to be corresponding to this height of the tree. The wave and create history is, so we ensure that history is always a complete tree. You guys understand what is a complete tree? Every simply means that all the levels are going to be completely filled. By solving the problems of binary trees, you might have encountered various different type of trees. For example, this could be a tree where this node does not exist, these two does not exist, this one does not exist. This is not a complete tree. A complete tree means all the levels have to be completely filled except possibly the last level. If there is any level which is going to be empty, it's going to be only the last level where the nodes have to be left alone. You cannot have these nodes here, you cannot have empty spaces in the tree. The advantage of that is that when you store the level order traversing, you are going to get all of these nodes, all of the indexes of the array filled with valid nodes. There won't be any null values that you are going to store. And you need the exact same size of the array. If there are n number of elements here, you need n size. Because there won't be any null nodes that you have to store. Is that clear? Now in your next term, you are going to have a DSS code. In that DSS code, we will dive deeper into how exactly can you construct a priority queue? How can you delete the minimum of how can you add elements? We will explore a lot of problems. And we will explore the entire construction and all time complexities everything. Right now, you do not really need to worry about any of these things. Because just like your analyst, just like your hash map, just like your queue, just like your stack, priority queue is also present in the collection library. So you can simply understand two things. That priority queue optimizes fetching the minimum or the maximum. You can extract the minimum in order of log in time complexity. And there is one function using which you can insert. There is one function using which you can pop similar to how you use a queue. So you don't really need to worry about how it functions internally right now. We'll learn that in the next term. You can start using it as a black box. So we do not need to iterate over all of this list again and again. If we are inserting all these values in the priority. Since all of these are going to be objects, right. There you have the node along a little distance. You will have to implement a custom comparator in your priority queue. So that the priority queue knows that you have to solve or you have to fetch based on this specific parameter stored in your option. Is that clear? Yes or no? Okay. So how will we implement this? First thing we need a priority queue. What should be the data that we have to insert in the priority queue? We have to insert an object. It's going to be a pair or an object of your own class. It better if you create your own class and you create an object where the parameter the attributes are readable and understanding. You can have the node level. You can have the distance as the attribute. So that your code is also easy to understand. So let's say we have some node in four class where we will maintain the node along with the distance. By the way, in DSA it would happen many times that you have to return two entities or three entities from a function, right. Or you need an array of multiple things and then you have multiple options in order to execute it. You can have a multi dimension array. You can return an array and you can then define that index zero returns me is index one. For example, if you have a node level, you have a distance. You can have a two size array as well. And then you can define that index zero represents the level of the node index one represents the distance. Correct. You should make an object. So returning an array or in fact returning a generic pair class is something that you must avoid. Because we can have a distance and we can have a constructor in order to create the object. So we are going to have the priority queue of these type of objects. Then we need a distance array or the answer array. Right. So assuming that the nodes are numbered from one to n, if you are using an array as the answer, then how many slots that array should be having? If we have nodes numbered from one to n and we want that distance of i gives us the answer for that i-th node. This should be n plus 1 slots because the indexes are going to start from zero. So we are not going to consider that zero index. There is nothing that we, however, it is possible that you know a lot of questions. You have given nodes starting from zero. In that case, you can consider an array of sizes. This has to be initialized from infinity. And then whichever is the source node, we are going to initialize that from zero. The first thing that we did was we insert the source node object in our priority queue. So priority queue dot add new. We have whatever is the source node along with a distance of zero. This is the first thing that we did. After this, we went inside the loop. We are going to now simply remove the BFS type of algorithm. However, since this is a priority queue, this will always give us the identity with the smallest distance. So we will run very similar loop. Then we will, let's say pop out the current node. Then you have the node which is current node dot. Now what we need to do is we need to take this and we have to iterate over. This, it is guaranteed that this one is going to have the shortest distance. So we need to iterate over all the neighbors of this one. If it is, so basically that we can do while we are inserting things in the priority queue. So you can run a loop for each neighbor, V of u. The node that we have popped out for that node for all the neighbors of that node, we will check what is the current distance. This current distance is going to be d which is the distance of u plus the weight of the edge between u and v. So let's assume we have a function here. Distance between u and v. If it is a adjacency matrix in which you are given the graph, then you just have to check the index u comma v. If it is a adjacency list, then you will have to fetch that list for move and then you will have to figure out what the position of the however in this case, it is better if you are running this since you want the exact distance between any two nodes in the most optimal time for complexity. It is better that you create an adjacency matrix. Now if this distance is better than what we already have in the array, then we will have it. So we already have an array which is initialized from infinity. So the current distance if it is less than what you have in the answer array right now, we will be completely updated. Which means that if current distance is smaller than distance for this node v, in that case we will update distance of v equals to current distance and at the same time we will insert this in the prime area. The node is v and the distances, what is the distance? Current distance type whatever we are considering right now. And this is all what we have to do. So this means since till when should the by loop continue till the p i t cube, very similar to what we did in BFS right. So till p i t cube dot size is greater than 0, continue doing this. Now if you see the code is exactly same as BFS, the only differences that we are not considering a first and first out cube, the only differences that instead of that we are using up right being. This algorithm is known as dashed result. This is one of the most frequently asked algorithm in the interviews. And you are going to solve a lot of questions based on only this algorithm when you study graph near dc. What is the time complexity and what is the space complexity? Did it is trying to figure out the time complexity of dFS? What is it? In space complexity. All the nodes are being listed. Are we listing all the nodes or all the edges? In dFS what should be the space complexity? The dFS is a recursive function right. You start from a source node and then you are going to visit all of the connections one by one. So suppose if you start from here, first you visit this, you start with this edge then you kept on going. Now in a good scenario this path will terminate and then you will come back and then you will start popping from your recursive pulse type. However if all the nodes are connected to each other which means if you have a type of graph where starting from one single node you can visit each and every path, each and every node present in the graph. In that case what is going to be the space complexity? So let's say if you have this type of a graph. You start from here, you visit this, you have another function call, another function call and you keep on listing and then finally when you are here then you will start returning back and then you will insert this and then again you will come back, come back and then you will visit this and so on. So in one single iteration you are able to visit all the nodes and all the edges. So what should be the space context? Let's do one thing, let's spend some more time on it and in the next class come up with the reason why do you think the time complexity at this space complexity should be the graph v or e or v plus e. What about this one? This is going to be the time complexity of the Dijkstra algorithm. Okay, let's do one thing, you take this in the home world, however I will help you out with these specific time complexities of these prototypical functions. So whenever you are pulling something, whenever you are pulling the minimum element from the priority queue it is a logarithmic time complexity which means if there are n elements that is going to take longer in time. So here in this case what is going to be the maximum size priority queue is going to take time, time. So first let us talk about this space because the time is also dependent on this space and whatever is the maximum size the priority queue is going to take, log of that is going to be the time complexity of this function. How many entries are going to be there inside the priority queue? Inside the priority queue, which means one entry for one node? We can see that node 2 itself has been pushed two times here and we did not even complete this algorithm right. Should be total number of edges. Should be total number of edges, why? Because whenever you visit a node you insert all the edges which are taking you to a un-wisted node. So every edge is going to be inserted inside the priority queue in the worst case at least once. So you can have two nodes inserted in the priority queue at the same time with different distances. So this is going to be log of t. If this is log of e, what should be the time complexity of this? Eiding inner priority queue is also a log with me corporation, which means if there are n nodes and you are adding another element it will take log of n time complexity. So the maximum size as we discussed is e, which means even this is going to be log of e. Now the remaining thing is very similar to BFS. So in a regular BFS removing from queue or inserting in queue was order of 1 right and that is why it was b plus e. So now you have to figure out whether it is going to be v log e or e log e. Okay. Is the question clear? This is a node. These are the time complexities of acting inner priority queue. Now you just have to figure out what will be the overall time complexity. Okay. So this again we will discuss once more in the next class. Now we discussed that weights have to be greater than 0. Why? What if weights are negative? We have to go ahead and see that the weights and we are sliding on the weights of those weights that if it is the minimum weight going to be an SSRVK, necessarily reaching the minimum part. So basically if there are negative weights so maybe that there is a 10 or 12 to the 10. But if there was minus 7, it said 7, that the parts should have been equivalent to 8. Does that make sense to everyone? So in this case what we did was we said that out of these two this one is definitely it is guaranteed to be the shortest distance. But if any path in future was having a negative weight that will never get up to it. Ideally if there is a path with negative weight then the weight the distances supposed to get reduced in future. But in Dijkstra the first time we find the smallest distance we say that this is the answer for this node. So that is why if there are negative weights then it is not going to work. So what we do is there are negative weights. Bellman fold okay what is that? Okay before that do you see an interesting thing about this algorithm that out of all the edges we are always picking the one which has the smallest distance. These type of approaches are known as greedy approaches where the choices either always picking the minimum or always picking the maximum depending on your type of question. So you have certain options instead of exploring all possibilities. Out of all the limited choice that are available you are saying that the smallest of this is going to be my final answer. And that fails if there are negative weights because if there are negative weights then a future range can have an impact in the distance of the current nodes that you have. So greedy approaches can work if you have an idea of your landscape. If you understand that these type of scenarios will not begin. So for example if let us say in this case we had this edge selected first and then we said that let us say if this weight was negative. Let us consider this graph. So here we are saying that these two are the edges so we consider the three as the answer for this and we ignored this one then we moved ahead and then we said that okay now three is going to be the answer for six is five is going to be the answer for this. However if this weight was negative if instead of six if this was let us say minus five or if this was minus seven then this would have been a shorter path because minus seven plus nine is going to be three. However since we first selected this path. So since we first selected this edge and we have simply ignoring all the nodes which are directly connected to two right now. We are deciding we have assumed that all the edges coming out from this have to be considered first and the moment we mark anything as listed then we are not going to visit it again. So we are going to get five for three however it should have been three okay is that making sense. So what do we do in these cases? greedy will not work because greedy says that out of all the limited choices that you have picked the smallest one we need to actually explore all possibilities how to do that and again you will learn in your next TSA course when you learn dynamic programming. Here is some idea about what is dynamic programming what do we do in dynamic programming? So dynamic programming basically is an optimization for type of problems where you have to explore all possibilities right. So a lot of recursive solutions a lot of backtracking type of solutions where the problems overlap for example let us say you are calculating the Fibonacci numbers right. So if you have F of 4 then in order to calculate this you will calculate F of 3 then you will calculate F of 2 right then here also you will calculate F of 2 F of 1 and so on. So this is repetition right this is overlap of problems if you are having a larger number let us say here calculating F of 5 then the size of trees going to simply double you are going to have F of 3 here then F of 2 F of 1 and so on. You can see that this same tree is present here as well which means that you will be doing the same calculation again and again this is what we call an overlapping problem. Dynamic programming says that instead of doing the same calculation again instead of only the same function going through the same recursive tree again and again store the answer if you have the answer you directly get it. So we will learn dynamic programming in future in detail however right now we will simply see an algorithm which is based on dynamic programming. Once you learn dynamic programming then the inclusion of this algorithm is going to make more sense but right now since it is required for understanding routing algorithms that we will cover in the next class. As we will see this algorithm which is called a Bellman-Ford. Bellman-Ford says that since there can be negative waves we cannot take a decision right away we will have to visit all possibilities which means that if there are let us say 4, 5 vertices that you have right from a given vertex what is the maximum number of edges that can come out if there are V number of vertex that you have how many edges can be there from a given vertex V minus 1 so that means you consider all of these weights all of the distances V minus 1 time. So whatever you are going to do since there are at max V minus 1 possibilities you first run one iteration, clear out some distances then you do it again and you keep doing it until either the values stop changing or until you have done it V minus 1 times in order to explore all possibilities then we take an example. So let us say these are the edges that we have and the weights are 3, 5 and 6. So Bellman-Ford is an algorithm which is going to work which will be executed over all the edges. If you see in digestrap we wanted all the neighbors of a given node right. However in graph questions a lot of times you are neither given the graph as an adjacency matrix nor as an adjacency list. A lot of times the graph will be given to you only in the form of edges right. The question will say that there are n number of nodes marked from 1 to 1 or 0 to n minus 1 and these are the edges. There is an edge from let us say 3 to 5 the weight is 10 there is an edge from 4 to 7 the weight is 7 and so on. So a lot of times you will be given the graph as a 2D matrix of 3 columns vertex 1 vertex 2 weight and then you will have to iterate over that in order to construct either an adjacency matrix or an adjacency list as per whatever is the requirement of the problem. Whatever is going to solve your mode optimally you will construct that type of a representation. However in measurement form this is the exact data that you need you need vertex 1 vertex 2 weight that is because you want to operate over these individual edges that makes sense. So what we are going to do here is you are simply going to get all the edges that is. So let us assume this is again going to be our final answer array. A is going to be our source node which means the distance of A is going to be 0 all the other distances can be marked as infinity. If there are 3 vertex sorry 4 vertex how many times do we need to run the algorithm? 3 times if there are V number of vertex in order to explore all possibilities we need to run it V minus 1 times because that makes V minus 1 edges could be coming out of a given node. So in the first iteration what all edges do we have? We have A to B or let us probably consider in some random order. So you have C to D you have B to C and you have A to B. Okay so let us start calculating the distance. Every single time you have to check whether the value that you are getting right now is better than what you already had here on. And the weight will be calculated in the exact same way as we are doing in case of Dijkstra which is whatever is the distance of the current node of the source node plus the distance or the weight of this edge which is connecting these two nodes. So what is the distance of C? What is the answer that we have for C? C is? No no no what is the answer that we have right now? This is the answer area this is the distance area. It is infinity right? I really we should have started from the source node which is A but just to show you that this algorithm will work regardless of the order in which you are picking these edges. Initially C is at a distance of infinity so we will have infinity plus the distance of C and D is 7 what is the answer? Infinity plus 7 is infinity so no changes both are same. B is at a distance of infinity B plus C is 5 that is also infinity no changes then you have A and B what is the distance of A? B is 0 B order distance between A and B 3 so 0 plus 3 this becomes 3 which means there has to be an update here. First iteration then we are able to update the distance of only one of the node. Let us run the second iteration node. So we will do the same thing once again what is the distance of C right now that we have? C is still at a distance of infinity so are you going to have any change? Yes or no? The answer for C is still infinity infinity plus 7 infinity no changes B to C what is the answer for B? 3 and the distance between B and C? 5 so this becomes 8 should we update the answer? Yes so we are going to update this answer to 8 okay. So we make another update. Now again from A to B do we need an update here? A is at 0 the the distance between A and B is 3 we already have 3 as the answer is not known update needed. So 2 updates done and 2 rounds done and we have the distance of 2 of the nodes updated. Now we will do the same thing again because we have to do it 3 times. So in the third iteration what is the distance of C now? C is at 8 the distance between C and D is 7 so this comes out to be 15 which means we need to update this. This B to C going to remain the same and we have to be again going to remain the same and we are done. There were 4 nodes we did 3 update operations 3 iterations of update operations and are right after the third iteration we have the answers for all of them. This is make sense okay. Let us now take a graph with negative weights as well and let us see if it can help us get the answers for negative weights because that is why we are running this algorithm right because the extra can not solve for negative weights. Let us also add directions in this graph. So all the edges this graph is not a undirected graph all the edges are having a specific direction. So this is the graph that we have now can you guys start running the algorithm? You can consider edges in any order you have to maintain this array which you have to eventually we should eventually be having the shortest distance of all the nodes from let us say the source node A. These are all the edges that we have. Let us start with the first iteration. Let me also write the weights here. So we have A to B which is 8. So these are all the edges that we have now let us when we first iteration after the first iteration which all values have to be updated. A to B is 8. Do we need to do any update? So what is the updated weight for B? Distance of A is 0 between these two the weight is 8 which means that the new answer for B is going to be 8. This is what we are doing 0 plus 8 comes out to be 8. Similarly here the distance is 0 this is 2 so this also becomes 2 so you get 2 here. Then you have B to E. B is at a distance of how much? 8 plus minus 4 this comes out to be 4. So the distance of E becomes 4. B to E is minus 4. So 8 plus minus 4 is going to be 4. By the way in practical scenarios can negative weights be possible. So why? If we are considering weights as distance or time then they cannot be negative. However if weight is something else it can be negative. For example if let us say in a weight is how? Go ahead. If let us say the weight is the amount of money that you will have to pay if you are using this. It can be negative. It can be paths where you get some money if you are using them. Traffic could be 0 at least. Network is always going to be 0 or positive. The weights for neural network can be negative yes. So we can have negative weights however the type of problems that we will be solving in routing. They are they they won't be any negative weights. But there are two families of routing algorithms that exist. There is a family which is based on tight trial algorithm. There is a rubber family which will study right in the next class which is based on Bellman-Fordenkorn. And that is the reason why it is important for us to understand this algorithmism. However the weights are never going to be negative when it comes to routing of packets. Okay so f to e distance of f is infinity and e is between them is 7 infinity plus 7 remains infinity. No changes. A and f is as 0 f 3. So now this will get updated to 3. So now f becomes 3. You see that if we had visited these two edges in different order both of them could have been updated. Is this that the order is different? That's why one of them got updated the other did not. However after v minus 1 iteration we can expect that all of them would be updated. Okay then you have d to c d z 2 and between them is 5 so this comes out to be 7. Currently we have infinity we can update it to be 7. Then you have 0 plus 6 comes out to be 6. Should we update it? Not needed. We already have a weight 4 which is smaller than 6 so no need to update. Then you have b and c. b is presented at a weight of 8. Between them you have minus 2 comes out to be 6. So currently we have 7. Should we update it to 6? Yes we will update 7. 6. And then finally d z 2 plus 3 this comes out to be 5 so distance of b currently is 8. Ideally it should be 5. We will update it. First round of updates then. Now we will run another round of update. Round 2. A is at 0 distance between them is 8. Do we need an update here? No. Because it is going to remain. Currently we have a number which is smaller than 8. Then A is at 0. D is the distance between them is 2. We currently have to know update needed. Similarly b is at 5 minus 4 is going to be. 1. So we have b at 5 plus minus 4 this comes out to be 1 which means should we update this weight or should we update this distance of e? Yes that is yes. We need to update it to 1. So if you see what we are saying is that in order to reach e the distance that is needed to cover is just 1 unit. 7 in brick understand that there was a direct path in 6 units then there was this path 10 units and then there is this path which is 4 units. But if you go ahead from this path then the distance comes out to be 1 unit. And that is what we have updated it in this situation. Then f to e f is at a distance of 3. The distance between them is 7 this comes out to be 8. Currently we have 1 so no need to make any update. Then A is at 0. Between them is 3. This comes out to be 3 same as before. Then you have d which is present at 2. Distance is 5 again 7. We already have a smaller number. Then you have A at 0 e at 1. This distance also comes out to be 1. But we already have 1 so it does not change anything. Then you have b present at 5. Distance between them is minus 2 this comes out to be 3. So there is this of 6 right now C right now is 6. But we are getting a better answer so we updated it to 3. Here is even you will understand this. Yes or no? Then we have d and d. So you have d at 2. Between them is 3 the answer should be 5 but b is already at 5. So no more updates are needed. Now do we need to run another iteration? Yes or no? How do we know that another iteration is needed? Correct. If in this iteration there are values and properties that means more changes are possible. But if all of these remain as it is. If we do not make any change in this iteration that means we can say that now the weights are already minimum. We do not need all of e minus 1 iterations. So we can have a early exit of this algorithm based on how many values are we able to change? But in this case we will have to have a third iteration as well. Okay. So this value a to b is going to remain same 5 a to d is also going to remain same. Which is 2. Then you have b to e b is currently at 5. And the distance between them is minus 1. So this also does not change. Then you have f which is at 3. 7 which is going to be 10. So again this also is not going to change. Then you have a 0 plus 3. Same. It's not going to change. And you have d at 2 plus 5. 7 does not change. Then you have 0 plus 6. We already have a smaller value. Here also we have b at 5. And it's already 3. So no need to change d is at 2. 5 does not change. So you can see that in the third iteration we are not able to update any value. That means all the distances are already minimum. We don't need a fourth of fifth iteration in this case. This is the Freud-Warshal curve. We are going to be essentially covering all possible ways of reaching that node from the given source node. And hence it is also able to solve for negatives. But we have worked for all type of negatives. Let's consider a small graph. And tell me if a solution is even possible in this case. Let's say we have these nodes. From here the distances 1. Then you can go here the distances minus 10. And you have this let's say the distances minus 2. A, B, C. A is your source node. What is the minimum distance in which you can meet C? Minus minus 9. Are you sure? Imagine if these are paths, negative weight means you are going to get that much amount of money. Are you only going to 1 minus 9? You can start from here 1 minus 10 is minus 9. But then you can take this node and you can take this again. Source node distance is not necessary. That is correct. But practically this doesn't make sense. If you have a cycle having negative weights, the more you traverse over that cycle the lesser the weights are going to be. It doesn't really make sense. So if there is a negative cycle and you keep on updating using this algorithm that we discussed, the weights will keep changing. But it can only change up till V minus 1 time. That is what we discussed. However if there is a negative cycle every iteration is going to change the weights. Every time the weights are not to be reduced. That is how you can detect a negative cycle. You can run this algorithm. If the weights are changing even after the last cycle, then you can be sure that there exists a cycle having overall negative weights. So that is another application of this algorithm. However not relevant for network. And you are going to solve some problems in the graph module of ASA. Okay. Here. Okay. So you guys will be doing this. Yes or no? Yes. Write out. We will start the next class with a pseudo code of this algorithm. It is nothing but you have to run a loop V times. Because we need V minus 1 number of iterations. So there has to be a loop that starts from one goes to V. And inside that there is this one single thing that you have to perform. You have to check if distance of a given node plus the weight of that single node. The weight of that specific is smaller than what you already have. If that is the case, update it otherwise continue. So you can simply hide a loop that runs V minus 1 times. Or you can have a condition which checks whether the weights are updated or not. If there is no update at all, you break the output loop as well. And you come out of the algorithm. Here. Similar to how you optimize bubble solved. If there are no swaps, you can stop them. Similar to that, you can stop this as well. It is called Bellman Fold. However, it is recommended that you do not go through the code or pseudo code. You try to implement on your own. Okay. In the next class, we will anyway be discussing this. Okay. Tomorrow. Tomorrow, all of you are aware that we have an extra class. So. So. Two. Someone. Earlier is not because I also wanted a earlier slot. But I think there are exams which will be going on. So we want to get in space. So that is the best that mission is. Okay. So in the next class, we will discuss this, the code of Bellman Fold. Then we will also be discussing. There is another very important thing in graphs, which is. So a lot of times the information has to be broadcasted to all the routers which are connected in that network. Or all the hosts that are connected to that network. So you need to figure out a path that can connect all the nodes present in the graph with the minimum total distance. Minimum is finitely that is what we need to cover in the next class. So. So.