you you you you you you you you you you you you you you okay good morning everyone so how was one in the area So yes, why not sir? You guys are completed and retired, you are at SSC, that is great, so what we will do now is now we will move forward with this particular year and our first semester. So now for semester you are basically asking courses, how do we use one of these courses, building with application switch, what is this? So what is this? More thick, right? So what particular tool out of this, you have already learnt which is react, right? We are going to focus more on the three other tools, BombayDB, Express, NodeJS, okay? So that you get combined all of these tools and create full stack applications where you have servers, where you have databases, where you have client, where you have everything together working, right? So this is the entire course and first of all before moving on with today's class, I would just like to share the entire class curriculum, right? Of course, I think this has been shared with you already. So if you see this entire course is divided into total 16 classes, right? And each and every class, we will be discussing some new topics, we will be building something else, right? The first four to five classes will be to clear your fundamentals, then how do you express, how do you know JS, how to set up moment in database, all of these things will be covering for the first three to four classes, then we will also be talking about one very specific architecture which is useful to create full stack applications, right? Which is the MVC architecture, right? Anyone knows about MVC? Now, okay, if you don't know worries, no worries, we will be getting cleared, right? And after that, we will be moving forward and then most of our classes will be based on a project, right? So we will learn everything, but by creating a project and for this course, we are going to create an entire social media application, right? Where you will be able to post, where you will be able to connect to different people, where you will be able to chat, right? You will be able to do all the states, right? So for that, we will be starting with that fifth or sixth class, okay? Yes, so the entire class curriculum and the class names, titles, everything is shared. And yes, each in every class again, we will have assignments. So you have your lab sessions, in the lab sessions, you will be getting a lot of assignments and you will have to solve them, right? Okay, now this time there is some change, so lab sessions are not directly up to your class, right? They are at a different schedule. So make sure to check your schedule once again, right? And yes, whenever there is a lab schedule, do make sure you attend lab sessions from this semester, because from this semester, lab attendance is actually minor, right? So if you attend the class, you get 0.5 attendance, if you attend the lab of that class, you get 0.5 attendance, totally it makes sense, right? She has to attend both the sessions, classes and labs, okay? All right, now moving forward to this particular section, which is our grading criteria for this course. I hope you have gone through this as well. So first of all, of course, at the set, we will be having a lot of assignments, right? So assignments weighted is 20% after that, there will be just one exam, which is in term, you will have 30% of the attendance for the end term. After that, you have a final project, as every dev course will have a project, this course also has a project, okay? So how to create a project? What is expected? All of the guidelines and everything will be shared as we used to do for the upper or previous semester, right? And the project consists of 30% of the course. After that, you have an AI-mokin-2, right? This is something new that we have added from this semester. You may have this for, I think you had this for the VBMS course, right? Yes, great. So, a very similar AI-mokin-2, but for our course, we will be having this. And I will announce the date when we are going to have this. Generally, we will have grabbed this up before, I mean, two weeks prior to the end term, okay? Then of course, this entire project will give you three credits, okay? So, it is past this course on your three credits. Perfect. Very nice. So, now let us start with today's session. So, the first class that we are going to move forward with is introduction to node-based and pilot level. Okay? All right. So, now I will open up. I will just need a new directory. We are group-seat, right? One, C, 2020, 19. All right? Let us open this directory up. And from day one only, we will start coding. Okay. All right? Our VS code is set. Now, everything, everyone has node-based node-based. So, if you have node-based, then I will submit this. What is node-based? One time in New York for JavaScript. All right? Very nice answer. Sorry? The answer came from C. Okay. Very nice. Thank you so much. Anyone else? What is node-based? Yes. I will allow you to run beyond the browser, right? Very nice. So, and what's your name? Krish Daya. Shivay. Great. Right? So, yes. Both the answers are correct. And if you combine them, we actually get the full answer. That it is a JavaScript runtime system, which will help you to run the code beyond the browser. Right? So, let me just explain something, right? Over here, what we will do is we will create a simple index HTML file. And I will just get a simple dog type code over here, we will attach our script. And maybe I will create one another script. Let me call this as test.js. We will just ingest this over here, right? As soon as I do this, I can open this with like server. And this is basically my browser. Okay. So, if I open up the console. And if I write something here as well, you will be able to see that your console can generally run JavaScript code and whatever you will write over here, you can get it. Okay. But right now, JavaScript is only and only restricted to browsers. Okay. But then if you notice, JavaScript is a powerful language, right? Or that has a single thread, but of course, it is powerful. It is fast, right? Because of its asynchronous nature and everything. And one more question. What is making this possible? Yeah. Down. Sorry. What is making this possible? That we are able to run the code on the browser. Does the browser have something which enables it to run JavaScript code? Sure. We ate engine, right? Very nice. Specifically, engines. Okay. Not only we ate, there are so many other engines as well, right? Right now, as we are on the Chrome browser, the Chrome browser uses the JS, V8 engine, right? This one. Chrome V8. All right. So, this is that particular engine which actually helps you to run JavaScript code on the browser. Okay. Similarly, if you are using Firefox, you would have an engine called as spider monkey, right? Then if you are using Safari, Apple has their own JavaScript engine, right? So, different browsers, they have the different JavaScript engines which is making JavaScript available on those browsers. Right? But now only on the browsers. So, now, around 2010, 2011, right? This particular person who is a very renowned computer scientist came up with an idea that why not bring out the powers of V8 engine which runs JavaScript and embed it with some C++ code? Yes, right? Behind the scenes, no DS is nothing but something written in C++. Okay. So, why not take out the powers of V8 engine, embed it with some C++ code and create an entire environment which will help you to run JavaScript, not only on the browser but on your local machines as well. Right? So, yes. So, if you want to just, whenever you have some free time, if you want to learn about how NodeJace was created, so you can actually see this particular video, right? The video was by the name of NodeJace, the document here and the reason is true. Right? Super interesting video, whenever you have some time, do watch it. Okay? Complete theoretical, so yeah. We won't be going to this right now. Just, whenever we have some time. All right. Now, the thing that we were talking about is we have the V8 engine, we have C++, right? Come on and now we have NodeJace. So, now what NodeJace does? Why this was done? Anyone would like to answer? Why do we need this kind of an environment so that JavaScript can run beyond the browser on our local systems? All right. So, in your first entire year, what are the languages that you have studied? Please ask any else, any else? Java, okay? Any else? A little bit of Python, yes? Okay? We have learned these kind of languages. Have you ever noticed something that why these particular languages are so powerful across all these systems? Sorry? They are across that form, very nice. Any else? The thing is that all of these particular languages can run locally, right? If they are only restricted to one environment, we may be not, I mean, we may not be utilizing the entire power of those languages. So, that is why now JavaScript is also available on the browser and now JavaScript is also available for local systems. So, now you can do a lot of things with JavaScript, not only some clients I program. Now, let's move back over here and I will move to the script.js file, we will be discussing what is NodeJace and let's actually now see that what NodeJace helps you to do. So, first thing I will do here is I will move to the test.js file. This particular file is actually ingested over here, test.js, which is running on the browser. So, if I go to test.js and if I just simply console log, window, what do you think will happen on the browser? Forget NodeJace, what will happen on the browser? What will you get out from the window? Okay, here, not right, console log. Okay, so you are getting an entire window object. And now if I open this entire window object, you will notice all of these properties and all of these methods are all down related methods. You can, I mean we have done that in a previous year. So, you may, I think you are now familiar with all these properties. We have alert, we have blur, if you move forward, you actually have crypto, right, entire document. After that you will have all these functions like fine fetch, things like that. So, all of these particular methods are client side methods, dorm related methods. But, if I do the same thing on NodeJace, let's say now I move to script.js, which I will run with NodeJace, and if I do this, and I will run this on the Node environment. So, how to run a code with NodeJace? We just write Node and a name of the file. You see what happens now? We get an error, which says window is not defined. That means both the sides are running JavaScript on the browser as well, on NodeJace as well. But NodeJace is not able to identify anything like window. Now, what does that mean? That the entire DOM properties, entire DOM methods, whatever you can do on the client side with JavaScript, if everything is removed from NodeJace, right? Nothing exists over here. You do any kind of browser-based client side programming. So, then what exists? So, for this you will not have to go back to NodeJace as official documentation. And if you go to the docs, the window, that particular part does it exist. But what exists? All of these particular tools that you see on the sidebar, they are there to help you run NodeJace. They are there to help you with other kind of things that you can do with NodeJace. So, if you move forward, you will see all the asynchronous operations, C++ add-ons, child processes, clustering, the mindline options, right? And a lot of things, DNS, where you can manage your domain name systems, environment variables, file system, very important. I think we have also touched based on file system once in Apple use-termisters, right? There is this file system module. Then we have this special module, which is HTTP module, right? What's HTTP? Anyone? Hypertext? Okay, that is a full form. Got your point. But what it does? So, welcome to this, right? I will ask this question again. All right. HTTP module. Now, if you move forward, you will also find something as a net module and OS module. So, this particular OS module will actually help you to interact with your operating system, right? Your local operating system. Then you move forward with the path module. The path module is that particular module, which will help you to manage paths between different directories, different files, right? All of these things. And there are so many, so many, so many tools over here, right? So, one by one, we'll be picking up some tools. We'll be understanding everything that one is module does, right? So, the first module that we're going to start with today is the file system module. That if you have multiple files, how do you deal with file, how do you deal with directories? Okay? Because now whenever we are going to create any kind of cool stack application, there will be a lot of files that will have a deal with, right? You'll have to deal with text files, media files, and so many other files, right? So, that is why it's important to understand how to do file management with NodeJS. Okay? Great. So, for this, I'll remove this particular part right now, and we'll start with our first module, which is the F.S. module, right? We'll do that. Similarly, we'll move forward, and we'll talk about server-side programming. This entire code is on server-side, background programming basically, right? So, for that, the most important module that NodeJS provides is HTTP. So, these two modules are going to be the agenda for today's session. We'll discuss file handling, and we'll discuss AC. Perfect. Let's go move forward. Okay? So, first we'll start with file system, and with this file system, I'll also quickly revise. We'll quickly revise. Say, rollers and asynchronous programming as well. So, that can just refresh your memory before we move forward with our actual content. Okay. So, now we have to use the file system module. So, what do we need to do? We now need some files of course. So, let's say we do f1.htl, let's say we create f2.htl, let's say now we do f3.htl. Right? Updated three random files. And inside these files, I'll just add some data. Let's say I am a good data. Two data. Okay. I'll just add some random data inside the file. So, now I'll move forward to the script.js file, and here, as we now want to deal with these files, we'll now be using the fs module. Okay. Now let's move back and basically open up the documentation of fs module. You just have to scroll down a little. And at this part, you'll see the file system module starts. Now, what is entire module will help you to do file management, directory management of course. So, the first thing that you see to use any kind of module, we need to import that module. Although, this is an inbuilt module. You don't need to install it externally, but of course, you need to import it so that you can tell not just where we are going to use this module. Okay. So, to import any kind of module, now there are two ways. Right. And the modern way is the ESL. Right. Stand for. Edmmer script modules. Okay. You have already done this in React. Right. You write those statements, right. This from this. Right. You do that. Right. This is the second. Yes. So, that is your ESL module. Similarly, we have one other module which is CJS. Stand for CommonJS. Okay. So, let's use CommonJS for today's class. We'll move to ESM from our next class. Okay. I just want to show you this as well. This is also one. All right. So, for using CommonJS module, you have this particular method which goes by the name Require. And inside Require, you provide the name of the module that you need to import. Right. So, if you need an FS module, they say that there is a simple acronym that you'll have to use, which is FS. Okay. So, over here, you can just go directly and write FS. All right. I know the import is done. It require FS. The module is imported. Now, inside this, what do you have to do? You just have to import this in a variable. Okay. You can create it with capital limits just over it. Right. So, now we have our FS module imported in this particular variable. And now all the properties of the FI system module, all the methods are not available inside FS. So, if I now move forward and if I just write FS. Right. You will see all of these particular properties. Okay. Let's move forward. Right. Yes. I am talking about FS. So, if I just do FS. You will now be noticing that all the properties and all the methods that you can perform with the FS module are available over here. Right. You can use all these directory methods. You can use all these file methods. Right. Streaming you can also do with FS module and all of these things. Okay. But let's start with the basic functionality of the FS module. Okay. So, what do you exactly do with the file? What can you do with the file? Indeed to delight. Read the file very nice. You can write something inside the file. You can update or apply something inside the file and you can delete the file. Right. So, you can do a simple four operations you can do. Right. Let's see that all of these four operations. How to do with the FS module? How you can do with code? How you can read file, write file, update file, delete a file, all that. Right. So, the first thing that we'll do over here is we'll try to read a particular file. Okay. So, you read a particular file. You can use the FS module and you can use this simple method with going by the name read file sink. Inside this we pass a file name which you want to read. So, if you want to read m.0.0.0, we have just passed that. And now whatever data will be read from this file will just hold this in a way. Right. So, you find it will do a job. It will read the file and give you back the data from that particular file. All right. Now let's do a simple console log of the data and see if we are actually getting the data out. Okay. So, you'll go to script.js. We'll open this up with the data terminal. We'll just write node script. We'll just write node.js. Okay. We have some other work. Well, this is not the actual data that you are expecting. This is something else. This says something like power 49x20t. Right. What is this? Is this your data or is this something else? Sorry. Yes. Exactly. Right. So, your FS module by default provides you data in hexadisable format. Yes. It buys the data. Right. So, this particular data format is an example. And now what do we need to do is we need to convert it back to string. So, that we can actually read this data. Right. So, you can convert it back. What will you do? Yes. One thing you can do is convert it to string. Second thing. Very, very easy thing I tell you. Right. I used this often. You just need to take a string and calculate the data. Right. That's it. You don't have to do anything else. There are so many ways. You can change this to do string. You can use an encoding UDF8. You can do so many things. But the easiest way is just to calculate it with a string. It can be an empty string as well. Right. So, over here if you now run the code, you'll now notice we are actually getting our data as we want. That's it. Okay. So, this write something over here as well that I am file 1 data. Right. And you have your. How? How? Read operation. Very simple. Right. Now let's move forward and see if you want to write something inside a file. What do you do? Right. So, write something inside a file. You can again use the SS module. And to put something, write something inside a file. You use a simple method that was by the name. Right. Files it. Right. Little names. Little job. Right. Files it inside right. Files it in whatever file you want to write something. You just give the parts of that file. So, as all of our files exist on the working directory only, so you just need to pass the name. Right. Because all of these things, they are on the same level. Okay. So, what do you just need to do? You just need to pass the name of the file where you want to write something. And then you provide the data. Which you want to write. Okay. Something like that. Just one simple line. And then file will be written. But if you write now, notice what will happen? Right. Files say is that particular method. Which writes the data into the file. But it will overwrite the previous data. Right. So, if you notice right now in our F2.txt, we have to data. But then if I move forward to script.js. And if I run this particular code. Right. The script executed. And now we go to F2.txt. You will notice the entire data is now overwritten. Right. So, that is why right file sync should only be used when you are creating a new file and entering some fresh data. It is actually in file. Because if you want the data to be persisted. Right. Then if you use right file sync, the entire data will be lost. So, that does not make sense. Okay. So, right file sync should only be used when something new you want. Okay. Great. So, now we move forward. But then if I want to update some part. Okay. Also before going to update. If I go over here and write this add F5.txt. Then find that doesn't exist right now. So, right file sync also does this. That whenever you pass a path. Whenever you pass a different path name or a complete path. This is still not existing. Right. So, what it will do. It will create that entire path and move the data. Right. So, if you go to script.js and if you run this right now again. Done. And if you see now F5.txt has been created. It's a content. Okay. Simple thing. Right. Very, very simple. Now we will move forward and we will see that now. Okay. We now understood how to read from a file. We now understood how to write to a file. Now we will move forward and we will see if we have to append something to a particular file. So, that we want the previous data to also exist. And we want to just additionally add something else with that particular file. So, for this we will now move forward and a very simple thing you can use over here is. Append file. As we are using all the synchronous method right now. I will be using a pen file sync. Okay. So, do append something to a file. The same thing you have to do. But in whatever file you want to append. And what exactly do you want to append. I mean is it 3.txt for this case. And maybe I will just put some cases to meet up. Whatever. You can put anything. Right. And now if you run this you will notice that the file will consist its previous data and will add this new model. Okay. Let's try to see this. So, we will just go back to our terminal and let's run the script. Again. So, if you run this script executed you go to f3.txt and you see this has been added. Right. And it is also having the previous data that was there. Right. So, this is basically appending something inside a file. All right. And now the last thing for file operations. We have seen reading. We have seen the itching. Now, delete a file. Right. So, let's say now some file is not a file use. We want to delete it. How do we delete this? So, now you move forward and there is one more method which goes by the name. Unlink sync. Yes. Right. The method is unlink sync. And inside unlink whatever file you want to delete you just provide the path of that file and it will remove that particular file. Okay. Let's test this quickly. It is script executed and you have f5. Delete it. Got it. Okay. Simple for operations. Read, write, update, delete. Formals. All right. Very, very easy, very, very basic stuff. But now the real questions are. All of these file operations. They are really heavy operations. Right. If the file is a small file if it has very less content. Okay, to use these particular methods. But generally you will be dealing with big files. Right. And the process those particular files will need more time. Okay. So, let me just simulate one example for you to show you how a big file processing task can disturb us. Okay. Let's see this. So, what I'll do right now is maybe we will just go to Google and we'll just get a lot of data and we'll put it inside our file. Let me move to f1.txt and here what I'll do is I'll just keep on adding random data. Let's say we have this big of a file now. I have seven lag lines of code or text. Right. And we now need to process this file. We need to read this file. Let's start fresh with this example. So, I already have this s.js file created over here. And now I want to read this file. Okay. But I don't only want to read this file because in a script I will have some other operations as well. Okay. Let's say first of all we have this console log. Hello. Right. Simple as that. Then we have another operation. Right. Just a random operations. And in between here you want to read the files. So, if you want to read the file of course we know what do we need to do. We need to get our fs module. And we'll say fs.read file sync f1.txt. Let's write this code. Okay. So, now we'll test.js and we'll try to execute this node. Test.js. Now just read. And finally you have your last operation. That is the answer. Right. But before reaching this final operation, what we are doing is we are actually processing the entire file. Which took around 7-8 seconds if you would have counted. Right. And 7-8 seconds of time in software engineering is a very big one. Right. If you have 7-8 seconds of delay for some particular task, you would not want to use that particular tool. You would not want to use that particular website or application whatever you are building. Right. It's huge amount of time. So, now how do we do this so that this big operations, whatever bigger operations you are going to do, they are not stopping my main thread. They are not we are not compromising on our other particular features or other particular tasks that we need to do. Because this particular task because what is the part over here? The part is that as JavaScript has a single thread, it can only entertain one task at a time. Right. So, let's try to understand this better visually. So, let's try to understand this better. This is a thing I just remember this. All right. Let's try to understand this visually. First of all, JavaScript only has one thread. Although we have seen one thing as well that how we cannot multiple threads today. Right. Anyone remembers? Leave you. Right. But that's another part. Right now we are going to understand the concept that what is happening. So, right now JavaScript has one thread and over here there are some operations over here, there are some operations over here, there are some operations. Right. Because it's synchronous right now. So, everything is just executing one by one by one. Right. Let's say this particular part came up which is the hello seconds. Simple thing which is executed done. But now over here there is this operation which is reading the file one. All right. Now this particular operation which has come up as the file is big, it has six lakhs and like lines of code or text. Right. To process this completely, just that will actually take some time. Let's say we take a ballpark bigger 10 seconds. Right. Now this is a huge time. Right. And for this as you only have a single thread, this particular operation which is again a very quick operation that can be done. We will now have to wait unnecessarily for 10 seconds. Stop. Right. So, what is this behavior called anyone? This is synchronous. But the behavior. Yeah. What's the behavior? Right. Blocking. Blocking behavior. Right. Very nice. So, if you now move to Google and you will, if you will notice, right. Blocking. Inogenous. Right. Just read the first line. Right. So, blocking in JavaScript refers to operations that freeze the execution of subsequent code because JavaScript runs on a single main thread. Right. Exactly what we were discussing. Right. There is a code which is taking more time and because of that, the subsequent operation is compromising. Right. Completely bad way. Right. If you create your application this way, of course your application will forever be lines. Right. So, we can't use this. So, what can we do then? Any other workarounds because of course, we need to complete all the operations. I am not saying we can completely ignore the second operation. We need to complete that as well. Right. So, how do we optimize away? How do we think of away? So, that all these operations are completed without my statement or without blocking the subsequent access. We can move on. Right. Very, very nice. Okay. So, let's say again we have a main thread because only we have one thread and over here we again have hello. Here we also have a phone read and here we have the next operation. Right. So, now hello executed. So, let's just execute this here as well executed. Right. The problem comes up in the second task. So, now whenever the second task comes up here we were stopping. Right. For 10 seconds. And that is why a lot of time was getting off the road. But here what we will do? In asynchronous approach. In asynchronous approach without starting the processing of this down at this point maybe we will just send this particular task to wait somewhere. Right. And we will move forward. Okay. So, we will now move forward and we will finish this one. Now, as soon as all the tasks which are going to take less time and which are completely doable quickly are finished. Then from this particular space we call this particular function or the process back. And now at the end we call it at the end of thread and here we execute this. Okay. This is asynchronous. Now let's go into some more depth into this that what actually goes behind the scenes to make this happen. Right. So, first of all there are some things that are there in JavaScript which we will have to do all this stuff. The first part is your call stack. Right. After that you have another section which handles more local asynchronous tasks or asynchronous. Right. So, now over here as soon as F1 read comes in JavaScript will not put it inside the call stack. JavaScript will put it to wait inside your node APIs. Now this particular section is your node APIs and this is your call stack of course. Right. So, who will wait inside this F1 read operation. Right. Then all the quick operations which can be quickly executed will come up with the call stack. So, console.log hello comes in first. Right. Our foot comes out as hello. All right. Then F1 read was there. But what will do like not it is it is it is it is it is it is it is it is it is it is it is to wait. After that the next process console.log by comes in here goes out and you have a route. Right. Now you need not to see your first. So, the next thing is it is it is empty. It has nothing else to do. So, at this particular part the constant will try to call the async operations back. Right. Now if you notice the words I am using it will call it back. Right. So, that means that whenever there are any asynchronous operations we will have to attach a function with these operations through which. We can call the operation back. What are those functions called call back. That is a job of call back. So, all the async operations whenever you are seeing any async operations you use promises using the way to use call backs. You will always notice that there is some kind of call back running me. Okay. So, now to do this entire operation will have to move back to our waste code. And here as well will have to change this to a async operation. Now to change this to an async operation will not be using this particular method read files sync will be just using a method. Read file. Okay. So, if you hover over this you will now notice that this particular method given by fs module actually works async. Right. But then again with all the asynchronous operations will have to attach a call back. So, now the seed file method also takes a call back. So, whenever you want to read any file you provide a call back over here and you open this. Now this particular call back takes two parameters one parameter is an error one parameter is the data. Okay. Now a quick trivia everyone. Maybe you can be asked this in an interview. This is a call back to the written to the reading with the error first dealing with the data later. What are these kind of call backs called? Error first call backs. Very nice. Okay. You remember everything. Great. Okay. So, these are error first call backs and here what do we do is we deal with the error first. So, that if the file is read file is not read right some issues then. So, first we handle the error and if there is no error we provide the data. Okay. So, over here simple thing is that if there is any error we just log the error or we prompt the error right. So, over here we will just pass in file does not exist or file cannot be read. Whatever and if everything is fine we provide back the data. So, now what we have just done that now we have made this entire operation a synchronous with attaching one call back to this. Now, how the entire process is having the call stand will not directly pick up at fun don't we? Right. Because it is not necessary that there is only one point they can do multiple files that we need to process. Right. So, they can be have to they can be kept to be and each and every file will be there with its call back. So, now means call back they go to a specific queue. And this specific queue for call backs is called as the task queue or you can also call this a call back queue. Now, that particular call back will be picked up goes inside the task queue right and then your call stack checks the different team. So, if everything is done if everything is done go to the task queue pick it up but call stack again can't do it right. So, to do it we have our specific even right. So, the event you can check keep on checking that if the process is done or not in the call stack is empty or not. And if now the call stack is empty see what will be picked up right this gets picked up from here goes inside the call stack and now executes. So, the entire file is right and you get your file one data simple as that right this entire process makes sense. Yes, so if this now makes sense we'll just run the script and be done with it. So, if I now run the script I'll make the data smaller so that we can see the behavior. Right you see undefined okay this particular line will be. Right great. So, as soon as the run on the script you will see that all of our operations are executed. Look, after that we have the file data. So, now we are not compromising on our other features on our other quick operations but we have now made heavy operation async in nature so that it will not block its subsequent operations. So, now a quick revision on synchronous and asynchronous programming now from the next class although we are not done we have one more up right but yes one advice from the next class you are now going to move forward to service I developed right. So, now you will be dealing with multiple external systems clients servers databases and generally all these systems they are independent of each other right they are all external systems. You will be creating a database somewhere else you will be creating a server somewhere else you will be having a client somewhere else okay. And we now need to establish communication between them so to establish communication between them that particular front and this also time thing okay. So, most of the time what we will be using will be using asynchronous programming for all these processes right. So, that is why before the next class make sure you have to revise three things asynchronous callbacks promises and asynchronous. Make sure you revise these three topics thoroughly so that you will have fun time building all these projects right. All right yeah with that now we will wait here for five to six minutes right if you want you can go out have some water take a break and then we will go forward with this particular thing which is the HTTP module that we discussed. Now we are actually starting with that server side programming so yeah take a quick break and then we will create our first node J server with this need to be one. We will start sharp part 1110. Yes. Go over do later right see there are different extracts and different extract they have different use cases. So, go land is something that is very powerful yes. Yes of course but see there are different extracts and for different extract we have different use cases right. So, generally if you will see express and node J server is also very easy to learn second thing is that it is very easy to transition if you are already a JavaScript developer. All right let us say you know JavaScript very well and you want to transition to express and node J server to do some server side programming quickly take up J server and transition right. So, it is easy to manage the server side the whole environment it is quite very easy to find a way to do it. It is very easy to find a way to do it. So, if you do not like JavaScript then of course you can choose any other extract if you want you can choose Python, Django you can choose JavaScript, you can choose GoLanc. In whatever particular tool you are comfortable in you can start learning that right there is there is I mean this particular debate can go for very long that what is better what is not right. So, just that or whatever interest you. Because I do not know if I invest my time into something like I am learning always and then switching somewhere else correct because for you to become really good at something totally good at even coding in JavaScript only you must invest time for it. Time of course and the reason I do not feel familiar with that is because I do not know time my time in JavaScript I do not coding that language for right. And also if we did not do that then so that is when we first use it. It is been so long right. That is why I do not feel comfortable doing it anymore. I am completely using Java because of the data I use to solve. So, I have to then again put my time in JavaScript and then come to the company and then start going on. So, that is why I was thinking that if I should actually start it more and or if it just learn another language more. I mean whatever language you are comfortable in you can move forward with that. But the thing is only make sure that it for the course part you at least understand yes. Other than that you can use any other tool like other text art and whatever you want. There are those questions. I will not know what I am all expressing this is for marketing as well but how does it suits well in content only. No, JavaScript suits everywhere these days. Every day. Every day. Mobile apps as well. Machine learning as well. But mobile apps are in the very soon right and in the case team. No, no, no. React Native is a complete cross-platform environment right. So, if you write an application in React Native it runs on Android as well. It runs on iOS as well right. So, it gives you a complete cross-platform feature that you create one application. You run it on any operating system. So, step by step process. So, basically I would say that for the first one week or maybe one and a half week. Focus on things. So, basically I would say that for the first one week or maybe one and a half week. Focus on theoretical and fundamental parts and then move the building projects. Fundamentally say you are learning go right. So, in go you have a lot of things. Let's say well, most people is kind of like Java not exactly Java but in go you have some new things as well. You have go routines right. Then maybe two or three other things as well right. So, I would just say that maybe whatever is new to you. Just learn it a little, practice that once and then move to creating projects completely okay. Even though I am not allowed to talk in yet. You should just like if you go for practice and learn a little bit. You can directly go for it. You should just do it. Because very basic it. For this you will need to give me some time. Okay. I will say something. It starts from here right. You first make some API architect tools using rest. Yes. I started that from AWS platform. Okay. We will be doing that in our next class only. Oh, it's amazing. Oh my, you like it? Sure, sure, sure. I'm going to start. I'm going to start. Okay. Okay. Yes. Okay. Now, please come forward. Wait. The SDT module. Okay. We are going forward with the SDT module. I want to ask you one question. What is SDT? What is SDT? Anyone who would like to answer? Where are you guys? Who do you guys? Anyone else? Okay. All right. Yes. So, overall, the answer is right. So, now as we are going to move forward, we are going to build different systems. So, first of all, we will have a simple client. Let's say, there we have a server. Right. So, now, what do we need to do is, that we have two systems. We will have one client. We will have one server. And it's very important that we establish communication between them. What does it line to? Sensor request. Okay. So, client generally sends a request. What does the server do? Sensor request. What is the response for this request? Right. These two things happen. But that is the problem. The client is a different system. Server is a different system. Right. Maybe you have written your client with using React or anything else. Your server is maybe in Python Django or any other tool, any other text tag. Now, the entire architecture, in the entire state that you have read, is different in both systems. But still, I haven't find this time. The information that is being shared, to the request, to the response. How is that? So, we need one particular data format, which can transfer the information and both the systems can understand this. And what is that universal format, which all the software systems can understand? Can you write? JSON. Right. Very nice. So, over here, the entire data transfer happens with JSON. Right. Any other thing? Any other data format? Files. Have you ever heard about XML? Yes. That is one other format. So, we will talk about XML and data. One right now, JSON. Okay. And to all of these communication, we need some protocols. Right. We need to add some red one protocols so that JSON data can be picked up from the client transfer to the server and from server to the client. Right. And to come on all of this, we have text to do. Okay. So, the entire communication is established because we have this HTTP protocol. So, that is what it is. Okay. Great. So, now, we will be moving forward and we will be discussing the HTTP module of Node.js. That how you can create servers and how you can actually establish this communication with the client, with your server. Right. So, let's do that. So, over here, we will go back and I will just create one simple directory over here. Let me call this as server. Now, let's forget about all of these things. App as module and everything. I will close everything. And we will work on this particular directory right now. So, another first thing to start with server-side programming is you have to set up your environment. You have to set up your own environment. Okay. To do this, the first thing that you do, as you have done in your react applications as well, that you first set up an environment. Right. You do that when we do in react apps. In react apps, we have a simple command which we write. Right. And we have created that latest. And you just write your directory name. And when you are in Thailand project this, it's established. It's kept hold of. Right. But here, we don't have those kind of commands. Here, we have a very simple command which goes by the name npm in it. Okay. Now, what npm is does? npm is that where npm initialize. So, if you just press enter right now and make sure you are on the right path. So, we are on the server path right now. And we set up npm in it. As soon as we do that, you will notice that it will ask you for some information. The first thing you can ask you for your package name. Right. Which is by default it has kept to us server. Let it be like that. Right. It picks up the name from the working directory. Now, let's move forward. Version. You can keep it to one point, go point, go. Description. If you want to add some description, this is my first node server for whatever. Right. I have it's description. Enter point. This is important. Okay. So, any point you will notice, you just see that, okay, there should be some extra point here. So, like whenever you get a React application, there is one particular main file from where everything starts. Right. After that, you can create multiple components, multiple files, multiple design files, whatever you need to do. But there is just one file from where everything starts. What is that file? In React. Remember. App.js. It's the main node.js. If you remember. Right. Similarly, when we do server-side programming, here is where we need that one main file from where our server will start, where we will actually establish our server. And that file generally is in desktop.js. Okay. You can change the name, but we don't do that. Right. Because this is a convention. Whenever you are working in big projects in a company or with a team, generally all the priorities will have this index.js file, so that every developer can quickly identify that, okay, this particular file is the starting components. Okay. So, that is why it's important to keep it as index.js. Keep it as index.js. Test command. We don't need to add it right now. Kit repository already. Okay. We haven't pushed the code. Okay. I'll push the code right now. Don't worry. Okay. Keywords. We don't need keywords right now. Orser. If you want to add your names, you can add your names. License. Let it be ISC. And done. Okay. As soon as you do this, now you will see that inside your server directory, you have a packet.js file here in the data. And this packet.js file, now we'll have all the description, all the configurations, whatever you do the literatures above, is said. Okay. So, first, environment is set up. Now, we'll need to do next. The next thing is, you have to notice, what is your main file? It is index.js. So, this particular file should be created. Yes. Server site programming is a lot manual task. Right. You don't have to income arts, where everything will be built for you. Here, you have to build things by running. Okay. So, now inside the server, we'll now have to create index.js. And from here, everything will start. Okay. So, now we have index.js. And we are now going to create our first basic node.js server. So, to do that, we of course have our nstp module. Okay. Now, let's move back to this diagram once more quickly and see what exactly happens between a client and a server. So, request response. Quests comes in. Response goes down. But, now, inside this request and response, there are a lot of things that can go on. Requests can be of multiple types. Okay. Maybe the client is asking something from the server. Right. Maybe the client is asking the server to create something on the database. Maybe the client is asking the server to update something on the database. Maybe the client is asking the server to delete something on the database. Right. The client can ask for different requests. Okay. And generally, these requests are called when it's not working. But, correct. Create, read, update, read. Generally, these requests, see, whenever you're creating an application, you'll notice that at the end, you're doing any one on this for operations. Right. You're creating something, you're creating something, you're creating something on the database. Go ahead. But, now, to do all of these particular requests, there are different methods. Okay. Which we call as nstp methods. Right. And I'll just introduce you to four new methods today. One is, get to read some data from the server. First, to ask the server to create something and then, you're helping with the third method. Put update something and delete. There is one more method patch, which we'll discuss. But, generally, we have these four methods. Okay. And now, if I move forward to the code and if I show you something, first, I'll not create the server, I'll just show you what this entire htp module consists of. We'll go to index.js and we will just run this particular file. And if you see, entire htp module outside now. Okay. Each and everything. First of all, as we are talking about the methods right now. Which we're getting right. We have talked about four simple methods. Get. Put. Firstly, there is a little bit of a system over here. Right. If you will notice, we have, get. We have patch, which I talked about. Post. Put. And, delete. Okay. All of these particular methods are coming out from the htp module. There are other operations as well. Right. There are other operations as well. Where we have connections, where we have log, move, query. Right. One by one, we'll see all these methods with express. Right. Well, yes. htp module can do all of these tasks for you. Right. Similarly, if you go down, it also has status codes. Okay. Okay. So whenever a request comes in, whenever response goes back, each and every request response, they come up with their own status codes. Now, what are these status codes? Status codes have a code which show you that what exactly happened with that particular communication, with that request and response. Okay. So, if the response is okay, what do we get? 200. Right. Like that. That okay. Everything is okay. If something is created, we get 201. Right. If there is no content, we get 204. Similarly, you will find out all these status codes in the lines of 100, 200, 300, 400, 500. Right. There are a lot of status codes that each and every status code means something else. Right. Now, we can't go through each and every status codes. I'll share an entire resource with you for status codes. Just give it a read for your own time. Okay. But yes, important status codes will be used in our project. But yes, now let's move forward. So, yeah, we talked about methods, status codes. Now, what is, what else is inside? All these functions and properties are also inside. Right. Where you see how to handle the client request, will be governed by a client request, incoming message, outgoing message. Right. What has been received from the client? What has to out-go from the server to the client? Okay. Then the entire server operations and this method create server. To receive request, to give back response to do any kind of methods, to do any kind of operation, multiple you need to at least create a server. Okay. So, this is the first method that we're going to use with the HTTP, which is HTTP.create server. Okay. Now, create server. As you just saw, server can do two things. Get a request, make a response. So, that is why create server comes up with a callback function. And inside this callback function, there are two things that we have to pass. Requests response. Okay. So, first of all, you need to pass request and request server to receive the request. And this particular aspect has actually created your first server. Now, what do you need to do? You just need to hold this in a variable, call server or my server, whatever you can write this. And done. Okay. But, will this work right? Now, why is that? Because, okay, you have created a server. And, what you think is that all of your external systems, all of your entities that you are creating, server, client, databases, write everything, they need an address to run. When you get a React app, you must have noticed the React app runs on. Localhost file 173, right? By default. What is that particular thing? That is an address. Specifically, we call it as a, anyone? Port. Okay. That is a port. Now, what is a port? Anyone? What is a port? A little louder please? Come and give me this server very nice. Okay. Like imagine yourself, right? Everyone stays at a hostel, right? But, you operate from your room. Okay. So, I, what's the name? Sorry. Sorry, right? No. Let's ask, okay. Let's say if I want to ask where it starts, right? So, say that I stay at your new world one or two. Okay. So, it starts, operates from that particular address. Similarly, these servers and clients, they are also entities. They also need space loop exist, right? So, if start this particular server up, we need to give this a space on the network over the internet, right? Or at least over your local system, right? That is why you see when you create an application, you see localhost. Because that particular address is existing inside your, local system, right? And there your server is existing or you're signed with it. So, similarly, if a server to exist, we need a port. So, first of all, what do we need to do? We need to assign this to a port. So, we'll go over here and write my server. And to assign a server with a port, you get a method. Listen. Okay. This one. And inside this, you can now give this a port. So, let's give this a port. Maybe the port is 8000, right? You can give any kind of free port that you have in your local system. I'll give it 8000. And after this, you can use a call bar function. And it can just log. So, start it. And port 8000. This is something, right? Now, let's go on this particular frequency for server has started. Okay. Right? If you notice, server started at port 8000. Right? If you notice, server started at port 8000. Right? Where is port 8000? We can access port 8000 from our browser. So, I'll just try to go to local worst. 8000. Let's see if our server is open running. So, if I press enter right now, you'll notice it just involved. Right? The loader is spinning. Now, why is that? There is no error. That means the server is there. But it's not giving any response level. Okay. Answer me once. Answer me one question. Did we just make our first request? Yes. Right? So, we have made a request. Now, we just need to send back a response. That is why you see the spinning. So, if we just send back a response, we will not be able to send back a response. We will not be able to send back a response from the server. To send back a response from a node server, why an hcb server? We use this particular function which goes by the name response. n. Not say n. Okay. So, response.n. And inside this, we just give back whatever response you want to give to my server. What do you want? Right? Done. Now, let's go back and restart our server once. Okay. Server started again. And now, let's make our first request and see if we are getting the response back. As soon as I do this, I am not getting anything back. Okay. I am getting back. Right? Welcome to my server. This is the response that we just said. Okay. Simplify. So, is this your first basic typing node, yes? Server. All right. All right. So, right now what I am going to do is I will push the code up at this point. Just quickly make your service. Okay. Okay. All right. All right. I have picked up a repository on your notice board and moving forward all the code, nodes, resources, whatever I will share, I will be sharing in this particular repository. Okay. So, simple name, one, see, very nice. Okay. We are getting here for just two more minutes. Then let's move forward with something else. Okay. Sorry. I am going to run the port. I will not get this. I will tell you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Everyone. Then let's wrap up with the last part of the session. Right. So, now we are trying to understand that how we can create multiple routes to serve different resources. Right. We made a request, default request, went in, we got back the response. Right. But let's say that now I want to have multiple routes and based on multiple routes, I want to serve different messages. I want to serve different responses. So, how can we do that? Right. So, do that. The first thing that we need to understand is all about the how, that how a request is made. Right. So, for this, I will show you something. I will move over here and when we will make the request and log the request object. So, you can see entirely what actually came inside the request object. Okay. So, let's do that. But for this, now every time you are making a change in your server, you will always have to restart the server. Okay. So, it is restart the server once again. Right. That's start the server. Now, let's see what is that request object entirely. So, as soon as I make my first default request, I should get the entire data about the request. So, let's go over here and let's press Enter. As soon as I do this, I have made my first request to the server. And now, I have the entire request object here. Right. So big. And so many things are here. Right. But out of all of these things, I just wanted to focus on one thing right now, that where the request was made. If you will notice, if you just scroll up a little bit, you should find something by the name, you are L. Okay. Let me scroll up a little bit. Just make note of it. The right hand request was made to something called as slash power1. Okay. And if you scroll up a little bit, you will also find another URL, which was made to not this one, I will show you, which one I am talking about. Right. You will find another URL, which is an empty URL. Okay. That means there are two URLs in which the request has been made. One is an empty URL, basically just a slash, and one is slash power1. Not ICU. Okay. Now, what are these two requests? I will show you specifically. Right. Let me make another change that now I only want my URLs. So if I just go to request object, and I accept the URLs, I will only be able to see the URLs. Okay. And if I press enter, you will see two URLs. One simple slash, one two, power1. So whenever we are making our requests, we are actually making two requests. One is to uncompared, which is the default route. One is to have icon, no time. Now, what is to have icon? What is the power icon? Anyway. Yes. Okay. So whenever you are going to any particular website, you will notice that each and every tab they have this specific small logo. Right. So whenever you have a logo, you will see that every tab has this scalar logo, Gmail has this main logo, Excel sheet have the Excel logo. Right. Google has the G logo. What are all these logos? They are five icons. Okay. Similarly, whenever you are making a request on any particular tab, a default request for a five icon is also made, which is for that look kind of a symbol. And of course, the default request to your server. That is why we have two requests. But now, what I want to do is that it is okay. But now, I want to create different URLs. And whenever I'm going to hit on different URLs, I want a different response. Okay. So how can we create different URLs for us? Last thing for today. Okay. So over here, we only have one URL right now, which is the default route, which is this. When you add default, you go to 8000. But now, I want to create more URLs. So that different URLs will return different responses. Okay. So we do this. We'll have to create multiple URLs. But any ideas on how we are going to do that. So we already have one thing, which is the request URL. So can we create new URLs? And we can just attach if there are statements or switch cases that if this is the URL, give this response. If this is the URL, give this response. Okay. Simple as that. So how can we use switch case over here? Let's use switch. And inside this, we'll just pass a request URL. Now, case number one. If the case is default, what do we want to send back? Welcome to my cell. Okay. So response.end. Welcome to my cell. Or welcome to my homepage. Whatever. Similarly, let's create case two. Maybe now I have an about page. That's it. This is my about page. Similarly, let's attach a case three. Contact. So here we'll return this as our contact. Page. Something like this. Right. As simple as that. We have a switch. And whatever URLs we just, or a switch we are in, we pass. And the request response. And let's see if this works or not. I'm going to different routes. I'm going to different endpoints. What are these calls? Endpoints. Okay. About endpoints, contact endpoints. Deploy endpoints. Okay. Now, let's move forward. See, yes. Again, I've made all the changes I'll have to restart this over again. So I'll just go to this server. And we will restart. Okay. All done. Let's now see if this is working. So from here, if I go to about. Okay. I'm getting my about points. From here, if I change this to contact. Okay. Crashed. Can we go back to the homepage? No. The server crashed. So for one request, it worked. Right. Okay. So, this is where the drawbacks of HTTP modules starts. Yes. We have just started with the HTTP module. And we are now facing its drawbacks. Although a very, very good module, right, it has more properties, a lot of methods, a lot of features. But it's very complicated to work with a HTTP module, right? A beginner developer may not be able to just wrap their head around HTTP. Because it gets so complex at times, right? Even small things, they need it to be taken care of. Right. So if you notice, the issue with HTTP module is that whenever it encounters this. Response.end. It literally reads the request as the response has. And it gets. Right. For this. Okay. So that is why it is not allowing you to make more requests and get more responses. That is one thing, right? So now to solve this particular problem, every time you get back a response from a route, you have to break. Then, you have to change the entire thing. Right. So break. Then for the about page when you have a response, break the entire thing. For the contact page when you have a response, break the entire thing. So that a new cycle can start. Okay. And now, as you have added all the break statements, now let's restart and see if now the complete server is working. Right. So I was starting again. Now let's see. Home page. About page. Quite that. Home page again. Okay. So this is how your HTTP module works. Also. One thing. Can you actually send an entire little page as a response? Yes. So as I am going to send some pretext, we can actually send entire HTML as a response. Okay. Let's see how to do that. So for this contact page, we will do this maybe. So I'll just ask Gemini create one. Contact page HTML model. Okay. We have the entire HTML created. Let's see if we can actually pass the entire thing inside a response. Right. So I've copied the entire HTML code and maybe for our contact page, I'll use template letters over here. And inside this, I'll paste the entire HTML file. Right. I've pasted this. I've made some changes. I'll just restart this over again. And let's see. If that now we have the entire HTML getting served. Let's hit on contact. And you see the entire HTML page is now served from the server. Right. You can actually send the entire HTML page as a response. And if you notice, have you ever heard about this term server side rendering? What we just did is server side rendering. Okay. Because we have done nothing. But for a request, our response is an entire UI. Okay. So UI is not hitting created on the client. It is being served from the server. And whenever UI is served from the server, that concept in the natural is server side rendering. Right. Although it has a lot of things to be able to see. But it's because that. But yes, this is basic server side rendering. Okay. So when we'll have our next JS course, maybe I'll go into the depths of this. Perfect. All right. But now if you notice, working with HTTP module is not something that we would want to do. Right. Of course. You handle your URLs manually. You handle your edge cases manually. After each and every request, you will have to break the entire cycle. Right. And just for writing three routes, we have to solve many things. Right. So now I just imagine if we want to create an entire server with HTTP, how complex would it get? Right. So for this, we will not be using HTTP to create a server. Although you should explore HTTP a little bit. Not a bad module. It will teach you a lot of things. But for faster development, the norm these days is using a framework that goes by the name express. So instead of using HTTP, we'll be using express. Express can do everything that HTTP does. Maybe it can do something more. Right. So what is this? There are simple framework for not just what server side development has. React as a framework. Right. Similarly, express is also framework for server side development. So from our next class, we'll be creating servers not with HTTP, but with express. Okay. Where is our next class? Finding. Okay. All right, everyone. So yes, I'll wrap up the session up till here today. Notes and the sources are shared by end of day. Yes, everyone. Please attend your roll calls. Adya. RF. RF. Sorry. RF. RF. RF. RF. RF. RF. RF. RF. ASTIC MISSHA. Abhinav Agarwal. Abhinam Mitchell. Abhinav Harti. Abhishek In Dev Singh. Abhore. Adyajhatri. Aditya Kainam. Aayat Shukla. Aayat Tulsian. Akansha. Akshad Mithal, Alvina Gautam, Amartya, Amit Anshu, Amit Saho, Avog, Amukhanish Rao, DuR1047, 47 now, and Amukhanish Rao, Amrith Khan, Ananesh Verma, and Anta Raman, Anukid, Anukid, Anmol, Anna Barthwads, Anshul Jain, Antirich, Anras Inder, Anugra, Jain, Arif, Arif, Ayin Pradhan, Arnaf Singh, Arppunna, Arun Mishra, Ariman, Ariman Valma, Arun Nithin, Asadilla Hussein, Atharva Gawal, Atis Kumar, Ayush Anand, Ayush Rith, Babik Jain, Daksit Reddy, Nagasharanya, Harsit, Shinma Sharma, Dashil, Shinma Sharma, Dashil, Deepak, Devansh, Dev, Dharia, Divits, Sai Semen, Sai Semen, Iakamsh Kamal, Paranazad, Gaurabh, Gautam Patel, Yadu Sai Krishna, Gautam, Fanzala, Khanzala, Khadik, Khadik and Raj, Farshil, Khashil Chandak, Khashita, Khashit, Khashit Lakhara, Himanchi, Khidakashap, Hishan Seni, Hishan Seni, Hishan Sahel, Janki, Jigyasujain, Kanishka, Khartik, Daksit, Kavishri, Krippa, Krishna, Krish Singh, Kunalya Sahel, Kusri Krampatil, Lakshmi, Lakshmi, Lakshmi, Rulamak, Yes, moving forward, Love Creek Corn, Malayapatil, Malesh, Manvi, Praveeda Ready, Palak, Path, Path Pitya, Viswanamakhan, Bhavita Ready, Khutra Patel, Gaurapanchgam, Piyush, Shamputa, Bharatmolly, Rakharpand, Rakharpatak, Rekrit, Khanna Ganesh, Pranjal, Pratik Shukla, Prince, Prince, Priyanchkhanda, Rakhut Sanjay Kumar, Raseesh Kumar, Raseesh Singh, Rudra Patap Singh, Shaya Pal, Sambha, Sujil, Sambha, Jit, Sujil Patap Singh, Sapnil, Wetskuti Shukla, Vyum, Yashvan Ramcharan, Yuk Patel, Ayun left, Moksha, Namand Rati, Navita, Naviyas Singh, Nihar, Nikhil, Nikonch, Nithin Kumar, Nithu Singh, Raniya Vrakha, Rajeev, Rannaj, Raja Shautri, Raza Mohman, Ritansh, Rithvik, Rohit Sanjee, Rati, Rohit Sharma, Dora Gyaadav, Sarknik, Sai Vaskar, Sai Charan, Sikad Hazra, Salil Raj, Samriti, Sanskriti, Sashvat, Siali Rathal, Shik Mohma Jrafi, Sashankanand, Shivangi, Shivain, Sivraj, Sresht, Seshotri, Siddhant, Siddhant, Siddhant, Ramanth, Savanth, Smarani, Swamroid, Swamroid, Sani Singh, Swet Kumar, Somad Hakur, Savik, Sujna, Sufyan, Tahir, Tejas, Chunakur, Tushar, Udik Jain, Udik Jain, Webber Singh, Wans, Vashasherma, Vedika, Vishwak, Vixing, Kanumanthar Rao, Yes Kumar, Yes Daryani, Yes Vardhan, Yes Yadav, Dinesh Kumar, Astridhar Rao, and done, right? Anyone left?