Does it mean a desktop or a laptop? A data exchange machine, which means are you saying that smartwatch because that is also exchanging some data that is recording my steps, that is sending the steps to a different computer. Should we call a smartwatch a computer? Is it a computer? Is it smart, boggling a computer? Is your washing machine a computer? Washing machine also does some type of computing right. Now you can also connect your washing machine with Wi-Fi, you can run it through a nap. Is your AC a computer? Yes or no? All of these devices are some form of computer systems. All of them are running some form of operating system, all of them are exchanging data through the network. So, collection of all of these type of devices when they are connected with each other through a way, we can call it a computer network. It need not always be a system of dextops or laptops right. Then what facilitates computer network for us. So, I can see none of you are having any type of wiring, any type of links right, which is joining your computer with any other computer. But if I ask you to share any type of data, you can do that very easily. So, what is it that is connecting all of your computers together? It's the internet. What is internet? Internet is nothing but connection of all of these small connections themselves. So, there are very small, small connection units. So, for example, I have my own, let's say, Apple ecosystem. I have a laptop, I have a iPad, I have a ball, all of them are connected to each other. And then all of them are also connected to an external network through which this data, which is present in any of these devices, can be transferred to any other device connected to the same network. So, this is something computer network is, you can say basic building block of the internet. Internet is nothing but a collection of different, different computer networks which are connected with each other. But the question is, why do we need to study as an engineer? Are you going to do anything in the network? Are you going to fix the internet? Is that it going to be your core job? All of you need to, in fact, any user of internet need to understand some troubleshooting, basic troubleshooting speed. But does it mean that you need an entire course on that? Why do we need to study computer networks? Why do we need to study how internet works? So, there are some niche roles in a lot of companies called network engineers. Whereas the job of those engineers is to design these type of networks. They are going to deal with the core computer network concepts. But majority of you are not going to do that in your job. Majority of you, 99% of you are not going to join a job as network engineer. Only if you are extremely interested in this area, only if we have sufficient opportunities, only if there are sufficient number of openings, then you will get as soon as to join a job as network engineer. There are limited number of companies who work in this domain, limited number of openings. Majority of the openings are going to be software engineer, AI engineer, machine learning engineer. So, why do you need to learn this subject? Isn't this a waste of time? So, should we trap it, learn something that is actually going to be useful? Okay, let us understand what type of systems you are going to deal with if you work as a software engineer. You are going to work in companies, you are going to build products similar to what you use in your day to day life. What type of applications do you use in your day to day life? You use e-commerce applications? Yes. So, how do you use an e-commerce application? You open the website or an application, right? So, generally there are two ways of using any type of application. Either you are going to use it through a website or an application. Both of these interfaces, interface means like a way through which you can, a medium through which you can interact with that system. Both of these interfaces are called clients, right? So, you can either have a web client which is a website or you can have an application which runs in your phone or even in your desktop. So, what you are going to do is you are simply going to type the URL, let us say Amazon.com, the Amazon page is going to open, right? Then you will, there is going to be a search bar, you will type something, you will try to search products, then you will select products, you will then probably edit to your card, you will move towards payment and then you will process the payment. This is how you are going to use Amazon, right? And then time to time you will also keep a check of where your order has reached right now, right? Right? When exactly is it going to be delivered? So, you will then visit the website again just for tracking your order. So, this is how Amazon is being used. Any other application that you are using? Social media, right? So, let us say you are using Instagram, now Instagram, majority of the time you are going to use in your phone. So, again, you open Instagram, it shows your feed, there, some real, some posts, they are getting loaded and then you can perform certain actions, you can like a post, you can add a comment, right? So, you can do certain things. Similarly, you might also be using, let us say, another form of social media application, which is messaging application, right? So, again, let us say if you are using WhatsApp, you will have your own application, your friend is going to have their own application and if you want to communicate, you can simply send a message and that message is going to appear in their chat window as well as in your friend's chat window. And then you get a status and acknowledgement back whether your friend has seen the message, whether the message has been delivered or not, whether it is in queue and if it has been delivered, then whether have they seen that message already or not, right? Then another application, another website which you might be using very extensively is any LLM interface, something like site GPT. So, how do you use site GPT? You open your browser or you open the application and you type a prompt, correct? Then this prompt is sent to the chat GPT system, some large prompt is sent to the system and then it responds back with some relevant result which it has generated. Some generative output is written and then it is displayed on your machine. Similarly, you might be using, let us say, a cab booking application. How does a cab booking application work? You are going to have your application in your phone. You are going to request for a ride. Once you request, so there are few steps which you will have to call you, you will have to select what type of vehicle you will have to select the destination, you will have to select the pick up point and then you request for a vehicle. Once you request for the vehicle, what does a system like Uber or Rapidode does for us? It is going to broadcast this request to solve the drivers who are nearby your location, right? So, there is going to be a system behind the scene which right after you raise this request is going to broadcast this request back to some drivers with a condition that these drivers must be present in your location and all of these drivers, they are going to have their own client which means they are going to have their own application running in their own device. In that application and notification will be there, if they accept, then the ride would be reserved and then suddenly you will get an acknowledgement that the ride has been reserved. This is the detail of your driver and this is the exact location of your driver right now and then you will see that location changing as the driver moves towards you, correct? So, these are the type of applications that you use in your day to day life right. Now what exactly happens whenever you perform any action on these applications? There is always a request being sent to the backend or you can say to the servers where these applications are running none of these applications are actually running in your device. It is just the interface which has been downloaded. Either you download it on demand if it is a website, you will type the urm and then the interface will be downloaded in by interface and in the front end which is built using HTML, CSS, basic JavaScript. So, all of these HTML, CSS files will be downloaded only and only when you type the urm in present or it may be pre-downloaded. For example, you don't download the WhatsApp application every time you have to send a message it is already installed so that interface always sits in your device, you just have to open it start using it right. So, the interface is there but if you want to perform any action what you need to do is you need to make a connection with the backend system of these applications. So, you can assume that whenever let us say you are using Amazon, Amazon as a system. So, if you are building your own e-commerce application, you will select a framework right, it could be merged, it could be springboard, it could be Python, Django, it could be any framework, you select a framework, you build the entire code and then in the end you will be getting an executable file. That executable file has to run on some server correct. This is how any application is created and then deployed and is made available to the public. So, you can assume that there is a backend system running the entire Amazon. Inside this the application is deployed in some of the servers. If a service is running at a scale of Amazon, it is not going to be a single server where this entire application is deployed. It is possible that the search functionality is deployed in different set of servers. The card functionality is deployed in different set of servers. Then the payment functionality is deployed in different set of servers. The customer support is deployed in different set of servers. The tracking order management system is deployed in a different set of servers. So, all of these are different microservices and they have their own set of servers. As a layman, we can simply assume that there are many servers, many computers running specific part of the Amazon scorebase. And all of these servers are going to have their databases attached with them. Databases generally are not going to run in the same server where your application is running. If your application is a small scale application, which means less number of users are using it. Then you can have your application as well as database in the same machine. At the moment, your number of users scale the amount of data that you have to store that increases and expecting more increase as the time grows. Then you need to segregate your application and the database into different servers so that you can satisfy their specific needs. For database, you would want a server which has higher hard disk capacity, which has proportional RAM as well so that you can maintain the database index, the B plus 3 which will be created. Similarly, if you are building an application, you would want the application to run in a server which probably does not have that much of hard disk, but has higher computation power because your entire code base has to run in this. So, computation capacity has to be high. So, different set of requirements are there. So you can then buy or rent different type of servers and deploy application and database into different types of services, two different types of servers. So, internally an Amazon system is going to have many, many servers. Some of them will be applications, some of them will be database servers, some of them will be cache servers. Right now, you don't need to worry about how Amazon works internally. We will see that in later courses. But right now, you just need to understand that there would be thousands of servers running this entire Amazon ecosystem, not just one single application server, but many, many servers, all of them having some part of the code running. Some of the servers might be running the exact same part of the code. Some of the servers could be replica of each other. Just to distribute the amount of load that a service like Amazon gets on a daily basis. So, whenever you want to do any shopping, whenever you want to simply browse the products, what you will be doing is you will first open Amazon.com in your browser. The moment you do this, your system needs to communicate with this Amazon backend system or this Amazon servers. The first thing that they are going to do is they are going to return the entire web page of Amazon, which is the entire HTML page along with all the relevant CSS, JavaScript files, everything will be written here. And as a result, you will start seeing the entire Amazon website on your browser. Is everyone able to follow till this point? Is this something which you have already studied? So the important thing here is this connection. The exact same thing is going to happen if you are using which application was this. Instagram, right? So if you are using Instagram, you open Instagram application, the moment it loads your feed, a request goes to the Instagram backend service. And from there, some computation is going to happen. It will check who is this user, whether it is authorized for this action or not. Authentiation is going to happen. As per your interest, as per your past activity, it is going to return a list of reals or posts which can be displayed in your device for your account. And then you will start seeing all the posts. The entire feed will show up. Similarly, if you want to connect with someone on WhatsApp, are you directly going to send a message to their device? If you write high to your friends sitting next to you, is this message traveling from your phone to their phone directly? No. First, there is going to be a request that is going to go to the this WhatsApp backend service. There again, all type of authorization, authentication, everything is going to be done. Whether this person is authorized to send this message. Whether this person is authorized to send this message to this specific receiver. Then there is an entire infrastructure of WhatsApp that is going to ensure that your message is saved in a persistent way in WhatsApp service, WhatsApp database. And then once that is done, it is also saved. For the receivers servers. Once that is done, this service, this WhatsApp backend service is going to send this message to the receiver. So you are not directly connecting with the receiver. You are sending this message to the servers. Servers might be situated in USA. Servers might be somewhere in Europe. Servers might be somewhere in Africa or probably in our country as well. But you are not directly connecting with the receiver. You are sending the message to server. Server is sending the message to the receiver. Once the receiver receives this message, then the server will send you an acknowledgement that the message has been delivered or the message has been read or whether it has not been. Whatever is the status of the message, that will be returned to you as an acknowledgement. Is that making sense? What happens when you are using shared GPD? The exact same thing. You are not directly interacting with the inference servers there. shared GPD is a slightly different type of application. It's an ML application. It's not a conventional web application as Amazon or as WhatsApp or as Instagram. So there is a machine learning model which is running behind the scene. Do you directly interact with that model? No. Your first going to use probably your request since shared GPD is experiencing billions of requests at the same time and they have limited computation capacity. They cannot serve all the requests at the same time. And they would also not want to reject any of these requests. What they would do is they will queue your request. So your request is going to go here, but there will be a queuing mechanism where your request will be queued while other requests which are present in that queue are being processed by the inference infrastructure. Thousands are probably even more servers running those models. And the load has to be distributed based on user based on their regions based on the type of queries that they are doing. And all this time in the interface it will show you various different type of message system. Thinking just there, creating your image, just last I say all of these are not actually doing it behind the scene. Your request is simply queued there. Once it processes your request it is going to return your response, but just to keep you waiting there so that you understand that something is happening behind the scene. It will keep showing you some interesting messages. And then finally your response is going to be return. Right. Similarly, what happens in a care application, the exact same thing. There is a backend infrastructure and that backend infrastructure ensures that your request is first checked, authorized, authenticated. Then it needs to be re-entered. Is this screen visible? Yes. Okay. So whenever you are requesting for care or will happen is the request is going to go to the backend service which means that you are first going to create a connection with the entire backend ecosystem of an application like Google. There all of these checks, authorization, authentication. Right. Whatever type of request you have raised, they will check whether this type of vehicle is valid or not, whether this pick up location is valid or not, whether this drop location is valid or not. Here all of these validations, they need to somehow figure out what is the list of drivers in your location. All of this has to be done very, very quickly because the user is still waiting here for the cap. Then this will be broadcasted drivers. One of them is going to accept the request. If a driver accepts the request, then they will accept it by another person. If a driver has accepted your request, they have to ensure that a similar request is not the same driver. Is that making all of these communication that we all of these are happening over an invisible layer of computer network? None of this is going to be possible if you are not connected to the internet. You can only use any of these applications. You can only leverage all of these applications if you are connected to the internet. If you are not connected to the internet, you will never be able to connect with the backend infrastructure, which is not present in your vicinity, which is present probably in a different content and all together. And you will not be able to use these applications at all. So this invisible layer here is what we are going to study in this course. This layer of which we have simply said that your device creates a connection with the device of these applications. The servers where these applications are running. But it is not that simple. This is oversimplification of what happens behind the scene. Let's try to understand what all different types of problems could be there. So suppose if you have to open Amazon.com, we are saying simply that you have to create a connection with the servers where Amazon.com is running. How do you identify in which server Amazon.com is running? There are billions of servers running across the globe. There are thousands of more servers that are running only Amazon.com, specific servers of Amazon.com. How do you know? How does your system knows that it has to create a connection with a specific server, space created, located at a specific location? Probably if you think in a scale of Google, Google has more than 10 million servers. And this is our outdated data. Now the number would be even larger. So if you are using Google.com, how exactly your browser knows that I have to create a connection with this specific server? How is the server identified over the network? So there is an IP address which is any device which is connected to the internet is given a unique address which is IP address. Through that address you can reach out to that device. You can create a connection. But how do we know that this is the IP address of the server where Google.com is running? What is DNS? That's the full form. But what is DNS? Correct. So all of these servers, they are going to have some IP address. All of the Google servers, every single server, even when you get connected to internet, you also have an IP address assigned to it. What a system like DNS, which is domain name server or domain name system, what it is going to do is it's going to simply maintain a mapping of the URL with the IP address. Because you cannot remember. So ideally if you were able to remember all the IP addresses, then there was no need of any type of DNS service. You could have simply typed the IP address of whichever computer you want to get connected with and that connection will be created. If you remember what is the IP address of Amazon, simply type it there. If you remember what is the IP address of Google.com, simply type it in the URL in your browser, you will be able to open Google.com. But that is humanly not possible. As humans we are not good with remembering numbers. We are good with remembering names. And that's the reason why even in your phone there is a phone book. So that you can create thousands of. A thousand. Against thousands of names. You will always remember the name. You cannot remember the 10 digit phone number that is it. So similarly you are not expected to remember these IP addresses. You are expected to remember the URLs, right? The links. You should know that if I have to open Amazon, then the URL is Amazon.com. And now even that is not required because your search engine is going to do that job for you. It will show you some links. You can see we click one of them. Whether you type it on your own, whether you click on anything, the thing that is going to happen is first we need to figure out your system, your browser, the cluster server, I create a connection. So for that a DNS is going to come picture. So for example here the data thing. And some let's say 128 1150. Which means the moment you type Amazon.com here, you are not first creating a connection with a connection is server, the DNS server. Your browser will first freeze out to a completely different server. Send a URL, the IP address against that URL is going to be returned to your system. Now your browser knows that this is the server with which I need to have a connection. So then they are going to create the connection with the system of Amazon. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So now there are two, three more questions which you should be having at this point of time. First question, this is also some server. Right? So how does the browser know? What is the IP address of this server? We don't even know what is the URL of a DNS server. For Amazon at least we know that Amazon.com is the URL. We just need the IP address against this URL. We don't know what is the URL of a DNS server. A lot of you might be hearing this for the very first time. But your browser is still able to do it without you knowing anything about DNS. Second thing, who maintains this DNS? There has to be some entity who takes care of this system, right? Amazon has thousands of systems. But Amazon, the company takes care of this entire infrastructure. They have thousands of employees, thousands of engineers, thousands of architects who are maintaining this entire system, who are ensuring that this system is always up and running. But who is maintaining these DNS servers? There has to be someone. Yes or no? In the end, if it is a server, it is going to consume electricity. It is going to have some memory. It is going to have some computation power. One will have to invest money in order to ensure that this DNS server is always up because if the DNS is down, what will happen if the DNS is down? It will be difficult or will be impossible. If you have to open any website, the first thing that is happening is you are creating a connection with DNS. And DNS is returning unique IP address. And DNS itself is down. And that means the internet is going to be down. You will not be able to use any application, any website. Is that making sense? So DNS in this case is kind of a single point of failure, right? The DNS is down. The entire internet would be down. What is your age? 20 years, 18, 20, somewhere between 18 to 22. So in these 20 years, have you ever heard that the entire internet is down? Have you ever heard that DNS is down? You might have seen issues with a specific website was down. A specific application was down because of some error in the DNS. But you have never seen the entire DNS going down. You have never seen the entire internet going down. There has been a pandemic that you have seen. There has been a very large scale war which we have seen. There have been many natural calamities. But the entire DNS, the entire internet has never been down. How? Because it has been designed that way. It has been designed. It has been engineered in a way. And no matter what happens, the internet will always be running. Only in extreme situations. If the entire earth is being destroyed, in that case, the internet will also be destroyed. But otherwise, the internet will always keep running. So this DNS basically is not a single point of failure. Seems like a single point of failure. So it will study this in detail. It will study what exactly is DNS, who maintains it. What exactly happens when you type the URL? How is DNS able to retain the correct IP address in such a small time interval? There are data structures, algorithms, powering everything that happens in the computer size domain. So we are going to dive deeper into each and every. This was one of the problems. Another problem, once you have received the IP address, right? Now you have to create a connection. And what is the purpose of that connection? The purpose of that connection is transferring some data. For example, in case of chat GPT, you have to transfer the entire text of your prompt. If you are using Amazon, you are transferring some details about the product that you want to buy. If you are using Uber, you are transferring some detail about your ride. Only then a ride will be booked. So there is some data that you are transferring to the server. And there will be some data which the server is going to transfer to you. So there is a data exchange that is going on. Imagine if you are watching a movie on Netflix. So this client can also be your television, right? Television is also a computer. So this is also connected to internet. You are watching a movie on Netflix. What will happen? The moment you open Netflix, a connection will be established. So again, the DNS lookup is going to happen. You get the correct IP address of the server where Netflix is running. Then you create a connection with the system, right? Then you select a movie that movie goes to Netflix as a part of the request authentication, authorization, all of those things will happen. Finally, Netflix somehow has to return you the video and audio file and the subtitle file of that entire movie. The entire size of this whole thing could be in GBs, right? If it is a very high definition movie, let's say 10 to 12 GB of data has to be downloaded. Now if this data is being downloaded all at once, what will happen? First thing, you will have to wait for a very long duration. What is the amount of time you will have to wait? You can calculate that, right? If you know what is your downloading speed of the network, what is the amount of data? So if you have to check what is the network speed, the network speed is always going to be bits per second, bits per minute, the amount of data that you can download or upload. So you can see what is the speed, you can see what is the data that has to be downloaded. You have the velocity, you have the distance, you have to calculate the time. So you can calculate the exact amount of time for which you will have to wait if the network works smoothly. But there are so many moving pieces in this invisible layer of network and network is never reliable. And this is something that you will have to always and always keep in mind while designing the scalable large scale systems. That this layer of network, although the entire communication is taking place in this layer, this layer has so many moving pieces which we will discuss in the in this course. That this layer is not reliable at all. It will keep breaking. Which means your downloading time to be updated gets downloaded partially. Then the network stops, the entire download will have to restart. So if the network functions smoothly, if it is flawless, even in that case the waiting time is going to be very large. But that is the ideal situation. Almost that's never going to happen. It will keep breaking, you will keep read downloading from start. So wait time is going to increase. If there is a corruption that happens, can the data be corrupted? While it is being transferred over the network, can it get corrupted? What do you mean by corruption in data? If we look at how the data is distributed into the server and somehow outside of this finish going on interpaling with it. Okay so the corruption may happen because of many reasons. One of the reason is if there is a malicious user. Malicious means someone who is let's say monitoring this network who is monitoring what type of data is being transferred. So first thing if the entire movie is going on at once, they will be able to make complete sense of out of what is being transferred in this data. So in this case this is movie. In some other case it could be your payment details, bank details, ease and everything can be then decrypted can be made sense out of and then probably can be used for various different purposes. Second thing even if there is no malicious user, how exactly the data is being transferred? The data is video. What is video for a computer? What is the image? Image is a matrix. Matrix of pixels. What exactly do we have in every single pixel? The color values. So if you see in the end a video is nothing but a collection of many such images which have to play, there is a timeline in which these images are going to be played. But if you see what exactly is every single image, every single image is nothing but a matrix of pixel. What is a pixel? Pixel is nothing but four values representing different colors and the level of transparency. So the RGB colors are going to be for simplicity you can assume three values. R, G and B. Every single pixel is going to have three values. What type of values are these? Integence, numerical values. So in the end it is a matrix where every cell is nothing but an array of three integers. What is an integer? Heisen integer is stored. In bits. That's it. So what is a video? Collection of bits. That's every single thing that is stored in your system. Whether it is a software, whether it is a video, audio, image, anything that is stored there in the end is stored in the form of bits. In your audio it might be an analog file but it can be then converted to bits. So every single thing is stored as bits and in the end in this network these bits are getting transmitted. Right? Bits in this network are nothing but correct or signals depending on what is the physical layer on which you are transmitting the data. If it is a copper wire, it's current. If it is an optical wire, it's light and this data can change. The voltage goes up and down. The data can change. There can be disruptions in this data. So how exactly we know that we have transferred the correct data to the system? How exactly we know that the data that we are receiving is also correct? This is a problem. Is that making sense to everyone? So other challenge that we are going to dive deeper into is how do we ensure this security? Security not just in terms of someone hacking into the network. That's the least of our concern. The biggest concern is how do we know whether this data that is being transferred is correct or not? Whether it is accurate or not? There can be different type of abrasions in the data. There has to be mechanisms in place to ensure that what we are, so you can have certain mechanism but what if that mechanism also is experiencing the same type of abrasions? It's a recursive problem to solve. So we'll see how exactly these type of solutions are engineered so that the likelihood of these type of things is as less as possible. Can never be zero but we are going to minimize it to something very close to zero. Is that clear? Now we definitely are not going to download the entire movie because we do not want the user to wait for 30 minutes, one hour before they start watching the movie. And we even if let's say you segment it out into smaller chance, let's say you are downloading one KB of data that one KB of data is also very large. Right? Imagine these type of requests, the requests that you are making to the MSN server. This does not really have a lot of data. It might be having your cookies, it might be having some tokens, the JWT token, it might be having the product detail that you want to buy, that you want to add to your card but definitely not as large as a movie. But even this data is large enough for the network to get blocked. If you are passing this entire data altogether in this network layer, it may create, so this is very similar to passing, if let's say you have a lot of luggage to be transported. There are two ways you can do it. One is you rent a very large truck, you load your entire luggage and then you sign it all up with. Or you rent small, small vehicles and you simply load part of your luggage and then you transport part of it. So if you have a very large truck and you have a very, very highly organized going to be perfectly fine, it will get delivered. But if there are small roads, if there are narrow roads in between, then that will create a problem. It may get stuck. On the other hand, the small vehicles, if the roads are narrow, then that's going to be beneficial. But if the roads are large, probably they will not be able to make the best use of that road. So what we need to do is we need to solve for the worst case. There is always going to be a crunch of bandwidth which is the amount of data that you can transmit over the network. And hence we will not want to transfer large chunks of data over the network. So what we are going to do as a solution, what we do is this entire data that is being transmitted, whether it is from the client to server or whether it is from the server to the client, this data is broken down into very small chunks. And these chunks are called packets, data packets. So you have very small chunks of these data packets. And these data packets then can be transferred over this network. So even if let's say some of these data packets are corrupted, we don't have to resend the entire data all of this. Even if some of these data packets are right by some malicious user, they still do not have access to the entire data. So we are going to solve a lot of problems just by breaking the entire data down into very small packets. But one thing that you'll have to keep in your mind while studying not just this subject, in fact all the subjects going forward. So as of now you have studied DSA. In DSA what you do is you get a very well structured problem statement. And there is a very well structured solution that exists. And you can estimate the type of solution that you have to implement just by looking at the constraints as well. You can see what is the maximum number of inputs that I am going to be there. What is the amount of memory that I'm allowed to use? Whether it's an n square algorithm or whether it's going to be an n log n algorithm. Depending on what is the size of the input that you are expecting, you can pre decide what type of algorithm has to be used. You can start thinking in that direction. And then in the end they will be a solution that will exist. Majority of data. You will have a trade off between time and space. You can use data structures like hash map, hash sets. And you can reduce some of these some of the time. You can reduce the searching time complexity from order n or even from log n to order of one if you are using expressness. But that is the only type of trade off that exists. Starting forward you will see in every single subject that we study starting from computer network. Every solution that we have it will come with its own set of problems. There are always going to be trade offs. You have a problem you come up with an excellent solution. That solution will introduce new set of problems which now you will have to solve. So there is no good or bad solution going forward. There will always be solutions and their trade offs. You have to decide which is the most suitable solution as per your use case. So in this we were facing a problem of downloading or uploading very large chunk of data. The solution that we came up with is that it divided the data into smaller chunks. It is absolute sense when we are talking about transporting luggage. Because there is no specific order in which the luggage has to reach the destination. The luggage can reach in any order. You can simply start unpacking and start arranging your stuff. But if these data package they start reaching in different order. The entire message will change. Is that making sense? Suppose you are watching a match on hotstar. Hotstar is streaming the live video over the network layer. And they cannot simply stream the entire match at once because the entire match hasn't really happened yet. It is continuously happening. So they will have to record send, record send. This process continues. And in this process they will be breaking down their data into small packets. But if the arrangement of these packets changes or you are in. You will see the second over first. After that you start seeing the first over. After that you see the third over. Then the second over again. They will be complete chaos on the client side. So one very important problem is that the ordering of these packets has to be the exact same ordering in which they are being delivered. So if this is how these packets have been created, they must be delivered in the exact same order which means the first packet that has to be delivered here that has to be open should be the one that was delivered first. Something like a queueing mechanism first in first hour. So you have one, two, three, four, five, six and so on. Same thing should happen on the other end as well. On the other end also the server is going to send a response. For example, said GPT servers are sending a large text as the response that text is broken down into smaller packets. And then those packets in at your end they have to be arranged in the correct sequence. The one that is sent first has to be received first. Is that making sense to all of them? Yes or no? So how do we ensure that none of these packets are dropped? Now these packets are corrupted or if they are corrupted, we are aware of that type of corruption and we then request the same packet again. And how do we ensure that the exact ordering is minting? These are hard problems to be solved. Why are they hard? It can be a very simple solution, simply implement a queue. Queue is a data structure, all of you have studied. Simple enough to implement, simple enough to understand. Why can we simply implement a queue here? A queue will solve this problem, right? What type of memory allocation issues will be there? But that is the expected behavior as well, right? If a packet is corrupted then you need to resign or request for it. So see if a packet is corrupted then we will have to request that packet again, right? Or we figure out a mechanism of fixing it on our end which will not be possible in all the cases. So we will have to request that packet which means latency, which means buffering is going to be there. So that is inevitable. So we can simply have a queue and implement this solution, right? So if a packet is corrupted, then we will have to request that packet and we have to have the same data address, IK, IK, IK, and IK. That is a very easy keyword. This is all real, IK and IK. So if there is a rate of adoption, then easy was all that for the person. And so this is the key to the transmission of packet and it is corrupted on portion. And no, my question is why do we need something like a TCP? Why can't we simply implement a queue? So, see, the simple solution could be we break these packets down. We transfer all of them and we maintain a queue on this site. The only thing that we have to ensure is that the ordering in which we are getting these or we can have a queue over the internet work itself, right? So if this network is acting as a queue, it is guaranteed that the packet which is pushed first also gets popped first. If it is corrupted, then we request for it again, we remove all the other packets and then we redo the queue. So the problem is solved, right? So we may also need a stack, right? So if let's say you have pushed packet 1, packet 2, packet 3 and now packet 4 is corrupted. So then you can pop all of these out stack and push them back in this queue. If a packet is missing, then the queue will not be able to identify whether there is a gap or not. That's a problem. But a bigger problem is that the network is not this simple, right? Let's try to understand how exactly this network layer is going to look like. And this again is going to be a very simplistic view. So you have your laptops, you have your devices that are connected. How do you get connected to network? How are you connected to a network right now? Through a device, right? It could be a router, it could be a switch, it could be a length, ethernet cable, through which you are connected to your network. So let's assume that there is this device, all of you, currently let's say sitting here, are connected to this specific device. And this device connects you with other devices. It's not directly connecting you with, let's say the MS1 service or the chat GPT service. There are going to be millions of these type of devices in between. And millions of these smaller networks. So there could be another network of other different set of people connected to us or probably same person with different devices connected to another router. All of these are clients of the internet who are connected to the internet using these devices. There can be mobile phones, right? There can be televisions, there can be your washing machines, all different sort of devices connected to the router and then connected to the internet. And now these are also going to get connected to similar type of devices. So then they can be, so if let's say you are a willing, there is going to be an internet service provider that takes this ownership of or responsibility of connecting you to the entire internet. It could be airtime, it could be geo, it could be any of the internet service providers. So what they are doing is they are then taking on of this connection to their routers. So you probably might have installed a router at your home, you might have been connected yourself with the routers that are installed here. But when these routers take this connection forward to the ISP's routers and every different group of people, they may have different set of ISPs. So this probably if let's say the air tail ISP, this could be geo and similarly there can be other different ISPs as well. So it's possible that there are two different people, two different set of people connected to same ISP in different ways because they are in different locations. And then these routers are going to be connected with each other through other different type of networks. So when you need, you should be thinking about this that if you are connected with the air tail's internet, someone else is connected with geo's internet. How are you able to speak with each other? You are connected to air tailing. Amazon definitely is not connected to air tail's network. How are you able to create a connection with Amazon? There has to be a link between these different type of service providers as well. So network in itself is a very complicated structure. That's why it's a network. It's not a stream. It is a network where there are many routers, all of these connected to other different type of routers and then eventually taking you to these servers where these applications are running. So these, again, they might be having let's say ethernet connection and some service provider connected here, some other service provider connected to other place and so on. So network in itself is powered by a data structure, which is called what I will data structure is this. It's called graph. It's not an array that you have. It's not a sequential stream of data that we have into here. Now if you are delivering the package, the problem is that the packets, all of them may not take the same route. All of them may take a different route, but eventually reach the destination. Because when you have graph, how do you have understanding of what is graph? So graph is nothing but collection of nodes and edges. For example, any type of roadway network, you have roads which are connecting different destinations. You have railways connecting different stations. You have the power grid. You have wires connecting different transformers or different energy sources. You have water pipelines connecting different sources of water through water pipelines. You have the gas network. All of these are nothing but graphs. There are certain nodes which are connected to each other using edges. Some of the nodes might not be connected to any of the other nodes that is also fine. All of these are graphs. Have you studied graphs before? Yes, in which course? Have you studied graph in D.S.N? Have you solved any graph problem in D.S.N? What if I tell you you have benictive? Have you solved any problem of linked list? There are nodes connected to each other. Have you explored what are binary trees? That is a graph. So graph is such a powerful industrial that almost all type of problems can eventually be modeled as a graph problem. Have you done back-breaking as of now? No, right? We will see that. There are a lot of interesting problems of back-breaking that can also be modeled as graph problems. But the problem here is, now the moment you see the actual structure of internet, then you realize the level of complexity. And then you realize that first and first out is not a solution here because you don't know whether the packet is going to take this root or the packet is going to take this root or the packet takes this root. All of this depends on which root is going to take you to the destination in the least amount of time at the earliest. It is possible that it is the shortest root. But if some of these devices are heavily loaded, then it's possible that even a longer root is taking lesser amount of time as compared to a shorter. So now there is a bigger problem that we have. Sequencing of packets is one problem, but another problem. How exactly we decide the path in which the packet should be flowing? So you need to understand certain type of routing algorithms. And since this underlying data structure is graph, you will have to understand some algorithms related to class. Even if you haven't explored it as of now in DSA, we will have the introductory session. We will explore some of the graph concepts. We will also solve the DSA problems related to graph. Before we start understanding how exactly is it utilized in the context of net? Is that making sense to have given you? So now do you understand the type of problems, the scale of problems which are going to exist? Even if you are working as a regular software engineer in a company that is running at scale. Because all of this communication is happening over the network layer. If there is any fault in this layer, then the experience of your user that goes for a toss, you need to ensure that there is as less latency as possible. Latency means the time that takes the time for which the user will have to wait in order to get their response. For example, you write a prompt, you press enter, now the exact time for which you will have to wait. We can call that time latency. In day to day language, we call this waiting time as latency. So if you want the best experience of for your user, you need to have an independent understanding of how this network works, how the routing is managed, how exactly packets the data is divided into packets, how exactly corruption of data is checked and midday, how exactly the path is decided. And how exactly different type of systems these servers might be running on linux, this might be a window server, this might be an Android application, how exactly all of these completely different type of applications able to interact with each other without any issue. Is that even possible? Suppose you speak a language, I speak another language, can we interact without any other external assistance? No right, we can interact if we design a set of rules. If we both speak the same language, then we are already following a set of rules which is the grammar of that language. Even if we don't speak the same language, for example, this computer understand English, computer only understands one language, language of bits. But you don't understand the language of bits. So you have created a layer of protocols in between. You write something that gets translated to numbers, those numbers get translated to bits, those bits are fed to the system. And the system without understanding your feelings, without understanding the context, without understanding anything, does some calculations and generates a response. So there is this set of protocols which we have created in the form of a machine learning model, through which we get the correct response that we are looking for. So the same thing can be implemented here as I usually start to ensure that there are certain basic rules, basic protocols which are being followed. If all the devices regardless of their type, regardless of their operating system, regardless of their memory configuration, computation power, if all of them are following same set of rules, then the communication is possible. These rules are called network protocols. We have various different types of protocols. One of the, and is what she mentioned is the TCP protocol, which we have explained in a lot of detail. There are other various type of protocols as well, the most common protocol which you use in your day to day life while opening any website is why do we need any other type of protocol. And if all the protocols already exist, why do we need to study them? If it is already there, any application, if it is going to act on HTTP or TCP or UDP or SMTP or TOP or the pyrefice of all of them already, they have already been created. Why do you need to study them? You can simply see which protocol should be used in a type of type, which is used in specific protocols. You simply use it. You know, you need to read when the, read. So why should we study these protocols? They are not perfect, but they might not be have other protocols, so should correct them. So, just keep this partially. They are not perfect for every key scale. So, I am going to talk about every single network layer, the answer is no. Let me give you some examples. So, there is a, that company has many servers. So, as I mentioned that inside a company services, different part of the code will be running in different servers. Those servers will also have to interact with each other. This is also a network. All of this communication between the application services, the database, the cache, the load balance, all different type of entities, which are there in this architecture. They also have to interact with each other through the internet. So, these protocols will be required there as well. Now, a lot of these protocols are designed for client server communication, which means there is a client which is not part of this infrastructure, which is an external entity. And that client wants to create a connection with this server, with this set of services. So, security has to be checked. You should not be allowing any type of client. You need a whether it takes client, whether it is allowed to take these actions or not. Whether they are authorized to use this specific resource or not. All of those things have to be checked. Then there are few things which you have to, so in that payload you need cookies, you need the different type of tokens. But is all of that needed when these servers are interacting with each other? No, all of these are MSO servers. When they are interacting with each other, they don't really need to check for security. They don't really need to pass any type of token. They don't need to pass any type of cookies. So, the current set of protocols are not very optimized for these type of communications. So, there is a company which did a small analysis. They are really using the already existing protocols. And then they saw that the amount of computing information that they are doing for message passing in their own system between their own services. That amount of time when compounded, when you calculate that amount of time for every single such communication, which is in billions per second. That total amount comes out to be somewhere around 200, 300 years, which means they are doing 200, 300 years of computer extra computation on a daily basis. So, much of wastage of resources for doing unnecessary things, for doing things which do not make any sense in this context. They came up with their own protocol. They could have only done, when I said company that means in the end, they are engineers who are doing it. Engineers, a team of engineers who must have been allocated this task of optimizing these resources. They did a study and then they figured out that the pain point is not our system. Our system is already the most optimal that we can do. It has already been built in the most optimal way. But this protocol is the problem. The way two servers are interacting with each other that is creating a lot of latency. Let us change it. Let's create our own protocol. So, they created their own way of serializing or decilizing the data, which means converting it from a human readable form to bits and from bits back to a human readable form. They created a completely different set of rules through which the data will be transferred. And then they implemented it. They saw the difference. They saw that 150 to 300 computation years worth computation has now been saved. And then they made a mobile source. This company is, which company do you think is running at that scale? This company is called Google, which has more than 10 million servers interacting with each other. They created a protocol called GRPC, Google's remote procedure called through which your internal services can interact with each other. And when I say Google created that simply means engineers working inside Google, small team of engineers created. They could definitely not have done this if they were not aware of what are the limitations, what are the constraints of the kind of existing protocols and how exactly terrain protocols work. So, if you want to solve a problem, you need to understand the problem. Similarly, there is another company that was trying to build a video chat application. They saw that if I want a bunch of users, 10 users, 20 users to have a video group call, then the type of protocols that we are using in which every single user has to create a connection with the server, it is optimal. It is creating a lot of like. Because of this, the video chat experience is not smooth. They again created a completely different type of protocol only to solve the video chat type of problem, which is currently being used in almost every video chat application. This protocol is called WebRTC and this was created by Google. So, if companies run a textile, if they have so many products, they have so many problems. Problems, you need critical thinking, you need design thinking, you need excellent problem solving skills and you need the knowledge of that specific context in order to solve these problems and build an engineer new solutions. That is what happens in these top-back companies. And that is like they have such a robust, high-end process. Similarly, there is a company called Kaya, they have their own protocol. There is a company called LinkedIn. They have created a product to solve a problem that product is called Kafka and this product has its own data transfer protocol. There are other different types of similar products which already existed but they saw that there are a lot of things that can further be optimized to solve their specific problems. They came up with an entirely system and this system has its own data transfer protocol. And currently Kafka again, you can assume is one of the most frequently very widely used solution for that type of problem. So if you are working in these type of companies, you will face these type of challenges. And if you want to become an engineer that can create this type of an impact of coming up with entirely new solutions which do not exist, which probably will not be proposed by an LLM because they don't really have this much of context of this specific problem. Because that problem itself is very new. So you will have to understand what currently exists, what are the limitations, what are the constraints and what are the different ways in which you can modify or change. And that is simple reason why I have come to you tonight is extremely, extremely important cause. Even if you are working as a software engineer, today you will write code, today you will probably decide what code has to be written or generated. Tomorrow you will be solving harder and bigger and more abstract problems and there you will need the intent knowledge of all of these things. Is that making sense? Yes or no? Super, so what will be doing this? Has this received the syllabus already? Any board included in this? Thank you. Thank you. Yes, please. So. So. So. So. Your. So. So. So. So now what will you have to do? Assume there is no messaging application intent it doesn't exist. How exactly can this message be sent to Ritansh who is located in Bihar? How did your page, it is our grand page, it is used to send messages. Let us. But RIF is going to do is RIF has to come to the point. So. To which RITansh can read and understand. It's possible that the other time. Just feeling. No, no, you can still. RIF is going. So. So. RIF is going to then. And. So. This probably how the government works is a game these америк, striped fedomat district, Minnesota National cleanser. It's pretty likely that in the real world at 14,000 men that have had a sozial, a alimentary destructive destruction in India overnight are once lost in the beginning of the business plan. So, this is 한 to twenty-one conclusion, it's never explained as the other national development plan did make the success of the政府 at the city. So that's how we will make it. So, that means in the metropolitan area, and oftentimes we will, in the same type of sector we will need, all. The task that we will need to know, it has to be done almost every year with support So, so now what will happen is what used happen that there will be a postman who will come to is going to collect and not just be a postman who is periodically going to take letters all the letters not just the letter that has been posted by Ari all the letters inside this postbox not this this postbox but all the near my postbox right. So, probably there could be hundreds of these postbox which are there this postman is going to collect all of these letters and then this guy is going to take all of them to a post office. There a process of sorting is going to take these all of these letters which are addressed to various different states various different cities they are going to be sorted as per the destination. So, probably they will create a packet of all the letters that have to be delivered to be hard another packet of all the letters which have to be delivered to let us say Tamil Nadu another packet for mother predation so on. So, multiple such packets are going to be created right. RF slutter is part of one of these packet now. Now whenever they create these packets every packet will have another set of information that will be added over it. So, initially the only information in this letter was Ritans exact address. Now, there is another information that has been added over this packet which is the address of the post office of Bihar where this entire packet has to be delivered is that making sense. So, initially one set of information was there now another set of information has been added over and top of then probably through some mode of transport some physical mode of transport this packet will be delivered. So, it is possible that initially let's say there is a truck right which loads all of these packets and then so, multiple such packets are loaded in this truck. This truck is going to add its own information what is the truck ID in which these packets are being delivered just for the record right. What is the station where they have to be delivered what type of train are they going to take. So, then probably the truck may take these packets to a station where different packets are going to be kept in different trains depending on their destinations. So, RF's packet has to go to Bihar. So, probably a train which goes to Bihar in that train this packet is going to be kept. When it is being kept in train new set of information will be added because the railways is going to add their own information right they are going to apply their own packaging. So, earlier the letter was packaged in an envelope then it got packaged in a larger box now probably from multiple such post offices these type of packets might have been received. There are multiple such post offices in his locality. So, multiple such packets are kept in this train and a new set of information has been added over all of them. Then when it reaches the location someone is going to take it off and then the first thing that they do is scrap of this information which the railways had added. Then they are going to get their own truck they are going to take it to their own post office. Then this scrap of information the larger packets and then they have individual letters. There they will do another sorting inside Bihar based on probably the district based on various different post offices where these letters should reach. They will do sorting and then they will create a new package. Finally, it will be delivered to the nearby post office where the postman will remove all extra information and the letter will again be in this form when it gets delivered to Ritazh and then Ritazh is also going to remove this final set of packet and is going to read this actual message. So, you can see that there is a set of layers through which this simple message has to pass through before it gets delivered to the concerned person. Every layer is doing something either it is doing a process processing either it is sorting, understanding the addresses, or distributing or adding a new set of information. It could be address, it could be the information of the rail, it could be the information of the bundle, the packet. So, a new set of information are getting added and new type of bundling or unbundling is being done in every single layer. So, our network works in the exact same way. There are these logical layers through which your data packets have to go through. The data is in the very raw form, it is in the form of text, like say in case of GPD. It is unstructured text that you have given as a prompt that has to be serialized into something that can be transported over the viets. Then that data will be created into packets, every packet needs to know from where it has originated, where exactly it has to go. What is the ordering of that packet in the entire sequence? All of that matter data has to be given and then there has to be a routing information, which the physical layer is going to add. So, there are seven layers on top of which the computer network works. Some of these layers are there in your browser only. So, the first three layers, the application layer, the session layer, all of these are there, modern day browsers are able to do all of the things which is expected in these days. So, layer doesn't mean that there is a physical layer after which the data packet will be crossing, but there are these logical things which are going to happen with the information that is being transmitted. So, we will start our classes by learning these layers before that we learn what is internet, what exactly flows in the internet, what are these packets. Then we will discuss this seven layer model, we will spend a lot of time in the transport layer when we study different type of protocols. If time permits, we will discuss some of these protocols as well, which have been created by companies for solving individual specific use cases. And then we will also study how exactly these devices, what type of devices are there, which are the backbone of your computer what is router, what is a switch. And eventually we will also see basic problem shooting, we will also explore certain softwares through which you can actually see individual packets getting transmitted. We can actually see the intact content of all the packets that are going through your network. So, this is what we are going to do and next to next step, probably your eighth step, we are going to have a course on high level system design. What exactly happens inside these systems, we are going to learn that in high level system design. But whatever you are going to learn in this network course, that becomes a prerequisite for that because as I mentioned all of these servers are also going to interact with each other through computer network. You need to understand, you need to have a very good understanding of all the protocols of all the layers only then you will be able to appreciate the type of problems that we will be solving, only then you will be able to appreciate the type of solutions that we will be discussing in the high level system design course. Is that clear? Okay. So, when it comes to grading, there are just three components, there is assignment, there is an end term exam and there is a quiz which we are going to have when we are halfway through the course. Indicuents, you can expect questions completely based on what we are discussing in the class. If we discuss a case study, the question can be framed as in this case study and then without any details. So, you have to be really, really attentive in the classes, you need to follow the notes, you need to ask doubts if there are any so that you are 100 percent what is going on in the class. Then there will be MCQ assignments, multi select, single select, there will be some numericals and there will be some coding assignment as well when we discuss a specific part of computer networks which is socket communication. So, we will be writing some programs, we will be doing socket programming to build applications like what's it? Okay. So, for example, if you will understand very soon that if you have to communicate through the server every time and every time it takes certain amount of time to create disconnection and create disconnection, then in that case it is going to be a very high latency system in the I. But as a messaging application, it has to be low latency which means the waiting time for the user has to be as small as possible. So, we will see what type of protocols, what type of constructs can help us build that type of system and we will write some basic programs in order to explore that as well. Okay. That's here. So, some coding assignments to be us, there can be some assignments which are out of your dashboard. You might be given a problem on GitHub, you might be asked to submit solutions over GitHub which will be auto evaluated using Cloud. So, there will be certain guidelines which will be provided to you, you will have to ensure that you are following those guidelines before you submit your solution. In your end term exam, there will be minimum two sections, broadly two sections, a section on assignment and a section on the actual end term questions. So, the assignment section is going to have questions directly from your assignment which will include both the assignments in your dashboard and assignments outside your dashboard as well. And your final assignment score will be a multiplication of your problem solving percentage and the score that you get in the exam. Something similar to what happens in your DSSE courses. Is that clear? And waitages I think they are already mentioned in your sheet. So, you can check that. If you get an internship before we have the quiz, in that case you will be exempted from the quiz. So, if it is an internship which is having an approved exemption as per the policy, then you will not have to give the quiz. But in that case, you will have a biva as a replacement of the quiz during the end term. Is that clear? Okay, super. So, that is all from myself for today's class. I hope you are excited. There is a book which I will recommend if it is not already added in the sheet, then I will get it added which I would recommend you to keep reading after these sessions are done. To reinforce your understanding of each and every concept that we discuss in the class. Here. Okay, so we will quickly do another round of attendance. Aditya. Aditya karman. Aditya shukla. Aditya tulsiyan. Akansha. Akshans. Akshah. Alveena. Amretya. Amritanshu. Amit. Amo. Amit. Amitsa. Amo. Amo. Amo desumkar. Amo ganisra. Amri. Anane. Ananta. Aniket. Aniket. Aniket. Anmori. Annavarigvaj. Anshul. Antrich. Anurak. Arham. Arif. Arhyam. Arnaxing. Arpanam. Ariman. Aryan. Hussainse. Athar. Atish. Ayush. Anath. Ayush. Rajit. Bhabhi. Bodham. Dakshi. Arunyam. Arshit. Chinme. Dashil. Deepak. Devaj. Dev. Dhar. Devith. Sai. Akansha. Farhan. Gaurav. Gautam. Yedusai. Gautam. Manu. Gautam. Partil. Khanzala. Hardik. Hardik. Khanzara. Harsh. Harsh. Arbar. Harsh Chandak. Harshita. Harshita Gupta. Harshita Sanani. Harshita. Himanshi. Hyde. Ishan. Saini. Ishan. Sair. Janvi. Janvi. Jigyasu. Kanishka. Kartik. Kavya. Kripa. Krishna. Krish Kunal. Kus. Lakshmi. Lovri. Malay. Malay. Malay. Manas. Manas Gandhi. Manas Thurard. Manas. Manasveni. Manav. Manvi. Maniam. Markenne. Maniam Ansari. Mayak. Nithans. Moots. Nallah Parveda. Naman. Naman Gujcha. Naman Raki. Navita. Nava. Nihar. Nikhil. Nikunch. Nithil. Nithil. Nitu. Kallak. Part Abhaling. Part Petya. Ratham. Sorry. Patan Rizwan. Pavitra. Pavitra Reddy. Pavitra Patel. Gaurav. Piyush. Shiam. Hothla Varad. Rakhur. Rakharpande. Rakharpande. Rakharpathank. Rakhri. Rohit. Rohit Sanjeev. Rohit Sharma. Rana. Rutru. Sange. Sagnik. Sai Bhaskar. Sai Charan. Sekar. Selin. Samritli. Sanskriti. Sacha. Sayali. Sayali. Shik Mohmat. Shashank. Shivangi. Shivane. Shivraj. Shreesh. Shriya. Shriya. Siddhan. Siddhanchhuli. Siddhan Salat. Samrani. Soham. Sohangi. Sohit. Somya Gutta. Somya Ghaapur. Sohbi. Shrujna. Sufyan. Sujil. Suji. Suria. Suria. Sopmil. Tahir. Tamarvind. Tejas. Trinanthur. Tushar. Udip. Bhai. Svoti. Bhai. Vanshu. Vedika. Vishwa. Lime. Hanumantha. Bion. Yeshtariyani. Yeskumar. Yesvardhan. Yes Yadav. Dimash Yagunav. Yeshwad. Yupa. Aril Nithil. Aril. Yes. Aril Nithil. Yes. Actually we are talking about some link. Something to read after classes. What was that? I will share a book. I will add the link in the syllabus. I have the right for English.