you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you are nice sessions, you will be able to concept and then we create a different problem in why optimizing those concepts. So this entire problem statement will be based on the previous lecture's concept and you have to finish that. Similarly, we will have an next lecture in the next lecture we will learn some opinion. Again next topic statement will come up based on that particular concept. Right? And similarly what we will be doing is we will be able to create an entire different project in our labs. So this particular project will be continued towards your labs. The right thing will bring this fight today. In the next lecture we will be reading the next fight. In the next lecture we will be reading the next fight later. Okay? So not only will we be reading the source, because you will make up life form when you start but you will also have an end of the lab project that you will be doing throughout the course. You will have a safety project and of course, I think you have to submit your end of project. Right? So that makes for the three step project in one course. Okay? So as you have three new step projects you will have more confidence, you will be online those concepts right and we will be making a very creative use for the next lecture. So this is going to be a data from the next lecture session and some of our rules have been, right? So this is that after each and every observation whatever problems you have got, you have to finish that. After finishing your thesis and you will be waiting, you can have done the task problem. I am not saying you have to finish the essay but at least try doing something in the lectures that it is shown to your data that you have done so far. And then you will be by the first conducted of those particular classes. So for this what we have done? We used to have, I mean in our training criteria there is a slight change in it. I should not that as well. So in your training criteria if you now look, so we have removed the A and O of the thesis and we have to place it with the lab project. Because of course the A is completely the same, we are as well and we have to give by us, it is similar in the O of the thesis, it will be conducted, the regular by the time the regular interview is in each and every observation. The way this is done is the same, pretty good. So make sure that you finish the lab work and the A you should have a complete working lab project, transfer the lab work in the work, the group work. And make a doctor, you will be there. These training was in us to confirm the lab work. And of course, you also need to see this, I am going to turn it on and I will talk about the work in the lab. But it is not so serious and from the next day, the lab will be for project labs. Perfect. For today what you have to do, if you have any pending lab assignments, finish those, you will be revised all the whole lectures, you life. And today the lessons you will get. But from the next lab session, if you work, you will get the lab. Okay. Or the entire day itself. Also, so this is the end of the lab session. I have one more announcement to it. That is. Just give you one second. And just get up to your level. Okay. Okay. Deep exam schedule. Exam is for the day. We can do this. We will be getting ready. All right. Yes. One more announcement to the one we have partnered with TABs. So, we have five new collaborative data based for fellowship program. Most day in the field of cloud and data engineering. Okay. So, in my interest in these fields, cloud, data engineering, and a little bit of AI, right. So, this relationship will be very good upon sharing it for you, right. This year opening up for at least two-rate and existing. We want to apply for this partnership they can. Okay. But this election right here is a little bit of from the Asia. Yes. All over Asia only 1310th of the year. Okay. So, you have used all of the existing. Right. Every particular nation that you will drive this, right. Similarly, in 2025, candidate is selected from your room. I hate 2510th, and it is like Australia. Similarly, from the very point of interest. Okay. But yes. Because I am just about to be able to start now. So, what do you have to do in this particular fellowship to get a chance to do this? The first thing is that as shared, I mean, you may have to list my views in our space. Right. So, in that particular announcement, you will notice that this is that particular slide from very high-perfume age discourses, which courses you have to do this. Right. Each and every course over here is, you would be able to do different like this. Right. You only have to do the age courses and all the free ones. Okay. For this, you now have two weeks of time. Okay. So, take out some time, when these courses, and after that, there will be some sessions from day-to-day instructors. Okay. So, folks from Determinates will come up on the campus. Here, they will conduct some sessions. You will have to attend those sessions. And after that, when they have in one hackathon. Okay. So, in that hackathon, if you perform well and if you come up on the top 10, finally, you should conduct like that. Your fellowship fees, half of your fellowship fees, will be sponsored by SK. So, the fellowship fees is $500. Right. By scale, will be sponsored, half of them. So, you will need to pay 50 of this. Okay. And you get inside the fellowship. And then, the access-registering starts. Okay. So, in that way, you select the move for the data place program. Right. For the actual return program, I'm generally developing. You get to search about how a data place is made. Okay. And you will be amazed too. This is a very good company. Okay. And for this, you will get to learn, you will get to explore different things. How many rewards will be paid for it? Okay. Okay. So, if you're interested, you can go to the link that I've shared over the chat. And you can just go to yourself. Just fill out the form. And the next details will be sharing soon. Okay. Now, again, continue. Rappapur on the work. Revise each and everything. We'll start from the next class with the project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.