you you you�� And it is mostly related to why we have a different integration and why the outside are we do it to form a different integration. What happened to this? What happened to this? So what happened to this? So we didn't get into either. So why does the United's own integration, after the integration, why is it supposed to be that plus E? So hence this particular term on the features which are there in the integration, they are connected to what are the requirements. And the other, we have all the conditions which are there in the integration, they are connected to one tier of integration. So why does the field for an outside of the integration? So what we are having, like, are the models in the integration. Now we have two choose, that then the data is actually very well, the integration. And why is it not being seen to be a lot of the deep integration, as we hear that, and the one in the other. So we use the integration for the integration, and the data is same, that the data integration is the best approach to the integration of the way. If it is not the best approach, then we should sub for the model model. Then we have already seen some progress, not necessarily already, this is going to say, what we are going to do, I think also how the R is going to be. So R is where, if one moment in fact, tell me what is R is right, if there is a slope of order, if there is space of items of the model, what is that? Very small number of items. So for example, if my R square is 0.9, then what I just tell you is that, my E plus the local deviation in the model is captured by our existing algorithm. If it is 0.8, then it is a calculation of the relation that needs to be, only a cannot be, because it is what is what is the other understood. And it needs to be defined as the model itself. So this is the deviation question. The basis of the assumption today, it is that it comes to me, that easy, slightly unique, but it does to build some idea that what is happening at some curves, and so this one of all is as long as square, so that is one of all, and the two first information that we have, that graph, which are shown in the picture, will be. So the first one, we have, again, all the full class, have the same shapes right? So we have one thing right, so let's say, I have this four data sets, which is the first one in our data. E is right, that is one is by people, like, how do I understand some of my, how can I, where the x we find, and the more one here, I would say by, how can I understand the, how can I explain, how can I, right? So what I am trying to prove that we can have, our three first data sets, which have a similar, similar, the same, similar type of a password store, but, and similar regression, I can, you see, all of them, what is, I would honestly, the fact is, they include regression type, right? But, that's that regression type, is a neat sense for all those models, so we can make sense of course, model, right? But it not makes sense for the second model, it's not a model, it's a code model, right? So that is why I'm making this. Even though, all of our, the third data sets, they can be like, hey, hey, who's here? So, we have sets, who's here? For example, and they have the same, they have the same variance, and they have the same R's, but, that doesn't mean that, the regression will create all of them. It is not as far as all of them, right? So, what is necessary, you will decide the linear regression, right? You can see how the data is, you can see how the data is, what it was, the shape of the data. So, that's why we could be starting to go ahead, and we could be trying to block out the actual data. Like, how do you actually, let's do the photograph, right? That's what we see, right? Whether it actually be a, it has the curve shape or the shape, whatever shape it is, we just see that it is creating a more, we can either have people going into the data, right? So, let's say we have drawn, in the second period, we have drawn, we have a curve, we have one space, we have drawn a space magnet. Actually, you see it is not like, prediction is still there, right? The line you see there, you do prediction, but that doesn't make sense, that data is a factor. It's not really very good for, for a long linear regression, right? So, linear regression, we have the linear regression, it is sort of, one can make sense, that the data also has the linear, we have to, tell you what is linear regression, right? Do you have a set of linear regression, or set of two classes, two three classes, like, why do you have, that linear regression is, it won't be there, it's right. So, linear regression, but two, we have our x and y, right? So, for example, if we read my x, from one limit, the y is really, we have two limit. If I read my x-s, the y is really, we have two limit, or 1.5, it's not something like that. How much I read my x, why do you think we're more interested in? So, that's it, why do you think my x-s, what do you think? And why do you think that, to be your limit? If I read my x-s, who you think, why do you think I'm more, essentially, why do you think I'm, so this is not linear, right? So, this is something that we're going to do, why do we want to do x? This is the first method. So, linear regression, we have a calculator, we have a graph, which x-s and y-s are supposed to be, the first graph, the sum is really quite mean, the y-s that is great, are we, but the other graph, the other graph, the other graph, also, here, there is an algorithm, and the second graph, is going to be looking more, it's not linear, it's not linear, it's going to be a derivation, one of the common, then you take the curve, one of the acceleration of, whatever, the model is, the whole, like, we can have my different data sets, which have similar, similar types, typical matrix, which is mean, variance, or it's not, it's not the, it's not the regression, it's mean, that's what, the, and slope-pointed, use of the, so that, the regression is at 4, it does have the idea of being, variance, correlation, and regression, and 4, completely different, it's the statistics, so, our square, doesn't really, the idea of the model is, valid, right? So, we, we always, see the shape of the model, before, we have the regression, or any, I have no idea, or any, so this is, the first part, now, the intuition is, here, like, like, on which, the basis, we are going to, start this, and then, let's go, right? So, this is, one of the, slide-ditch, I think, you will, be able to remember, okay? It is, and we, we need to remember, exactly, so, this is on that, let me, other, linear regression, in time, we should have, we will ask, do, write, the assumption, the linear regression, the code, first, one, there's the linear regression based upon, so, we have, how we can, go ahead, how we can, use code, and the linear regression, and, So, the inherent arrangement is very important to say is the assumptions. So, six assumptions means what? So, six assumptions means these six ideas if they are put very high data or they are on a right to be checked, then our integration model is ready to, okay. So, the most is the inherent, that's what I showed you in the first graph, right. If you see the cost graph here, as I said, graph here, so our 9, see, division 9, 2, 9, see across all the photographs, right. But I know the cost of the data points are also spread in a data pattern. You can also see that, the data of the own data was expected in a pattern. But the inherent is expected to as and by the course of, but it's a whole number of only two steps back, as it's constant, right. And the other graph that I've collected here is an example of how that, two-year-old, but there is a key value as as and on. So, what I'm trying to say, it's our data set is the inherent spread, that we are inherent in this model, this is going to be a valid picture, okay. So, the first assumption is like, there is a relationship that you have to get on, should be, if you log on the actual data, log, that should show us the inherent spread back on the close path, then only the embedded is inherent in the second. It's the embedded, right. So, when you are talking about the different, let's get on talking about features, right. We are talking about errors. So, what does the embedded software mean? So, for example, let's say that I am going to want to, right, I am going to add a plus two plus three plus four plus five plus six, a little bit like that. So, the error is there, that means I'm going to add a plus two plus three plus four plus five. But it is still going into a positive condition, all this forward, it's not going into a different direction, that these are models under predictive rate, right. So, we have this, well, like the error in the embedded speeds, even then we have like I-piston values, but the direction of the error is all this forward, it's just like we are asking, that we are taking I-pid-adjust apple, but the model in box, we are going to draw the picture, that is going to be actually for one. So, for example, today's plus two, tomorrow is plus two, the after tomorrow is plus three, then the after tomorrow is plus two, then the model will be having only one feature, that the error is always fluctuating on the positive settings. All of the numbers I have picked, but they are not independent, right. So, I think the error is all good, if you look at the two, minus two, minus three, that is the ability of the mean and, right. Sometimes you have to get it, sometimes you have to get it, but if you take an average, we are not eligible to be eligible, right. So, that is the error of error. Then this is a thought, I think you have a lot of it, maybe not a lot of it. This is almost an accessibility, okay. So, what does almost an accessibility, the individuals have lost my value. So, first I need one with the zero. So, if I explain it in machine learning, then the residual is something which, the model plays between, right. So, my capital is in, if I want to score like ridiculous score of a score at the last time, then my capital is in the highest score, right. And my feature is how the score studies, maybe the ability of the proportion of error, maybe the subject, that capital is in, right. And, the predicted score, actual score of 20, but the predicted, the key, right. So, the more predicted, right. So, that 3, that the over predicted, was the zero, but why did the zero be not? Because there are certain hidden factors that come on the face to that, maybe luck. Having the OMR, which I am getting out, MCF is application, you know the correct answer, and you certainly want the user to be, and just take it up to, right. That is a harder, right. That is also one of the features that is a theory, I am trying to do you a practical way, right. So, that is also one of the features that the model is, that is, the scale, right. So, to make that a model, it is not able to capture with respect to the existing features, that are the reasons when the rest of us, maybe model, or it is, maybe model, or it is, so the most specific, specific means plus, that is, it will have constant guidance, constant guidance, teach what, or, or to describe, or not memorize the script, maybe as you want to know, last question. Hello. So, I guess, if I take a question from me, then say, how do you describe me? And my actual data points are 10, 20, 50, 50. So, if we subtract 10 times 20, we will have to describe, 20 times 30, or 10 times 20, or 20 times 20, or 20 times 20, we will describe, we will have to sum up all the elements, then we will write it back on, cover up, on the mission, because that is me, right. Say, myself, okay. Once you have to go with it, standardization, right. So, this is a medium, and this is standardization, okay. So, what maybe is being, is like, I, I, I, what the rest of you are, what whatever part of that is created, should have a constant respect. So, why I have to, I'm pretty big, something very small, why it was to, maybe, the reach and my army, you should want to stay on the device, to do, I suppose, to teach, I suppose to, then my exit also, please, more, to teach, both lives, and something like that. So, our maintenance, standardization, what is it? Myres 2, Myres 1, 0, plus 1, 2, right. But, I am predicting my reach, but let's say, 100, 200, 3, not the right. Okay, that is my, it was to be, my 60, myres 60, 0, plus 60, plus 80, right. So, you have calculated, the variance, between those two numbers, that should be constant, like the variance is great, shouldn't be much. Even if we are very, it's a higher number, that should be there. So, see, when you find, you need to know these conditions, okay, and what each condition needs, right. This is the assumption, we are going to, have a, here, I don't want to, what do you get, this is an option, this is, you need to get, this is an option, nothing medical, okay. You just have to make sure, that, I never, then you know, like this is, I am not sure, that, if, if one's understanding, that, examination paper, if these are the inner-extraversion motion, I think they put one of them, it may be, it asks, what are the things, adoption and state, what these adoption needs, right. So, this is something, really important, I think, that, I think, ask, one important, when it comes out, you know, it's a, I think, ask, right. Then, the fourth one is, not my idea of the, residuals, what does not my idea needs? Question is, do you see, okay. Now, I think, he, he, he, have a fellowship, right. So, it's nothing like, for example, I have, let's say, I have a, I have a, let's say, I have a, 20, okay. Then, that is, we are having a, my small residual, zero-sipul, first time residuals. It is, a need is still an offer, zero, if the data is worth, it is, fluctuating half of it, something, or something, right. So, that is the same, it is, if you are, you are taking the residual, any, any number, the amount, I will take this, you know, like, the residuals, should be, normally, there is not much radiation, so, by the way, like, say, 10, or 20th, or 20th, or 20th, or 20th, or 100th, right. Then, now, we do not, we do close to your phone, and we have, it's two numbers, I like, right. So, this is, what we have is, I'm sure that, it's here using, we have, we have the residuals, from, the action, output, and the predicted output, and, it does not like, there is too much, not a second, right. It tries to maintain its normality, to a better shape, but, not really, it's too, to the right, or not really, it's too, to the right, or not really, it's too, to the right, or not really, it's too, to the right. We have seen it, it was mostly, where we have been staying, right. So, for example, if there is a speed of that, if we are going to get it, it will, normally, it's too fast, okay. Then, this is the fifth point, go, or you, already, try to understand this term, then, really, I will, also try to draw something, but, first, understand this term. Malini, already, what does that mean? Like, why, it's very close to each other, okay. Close. By, you are, you are just trying to take the multi-curve, already, down to this particular point, okay. But, that is not the least, it's very close. The inductions, probably, but, what happens, multi-curve, it is, related to the features. Multi-curve, it always happens, when X is there, right. So, what happened, when the classic, small example, okay, let's say, okay, and there are two ways, and I am going to draw two ways, right. And I asked, like, did you saw the least? The first one said, that, that I saw, it was very not too sure, okay. Then, I went to the second, and asked, do you saw the least person? So, we'll say, I saw the least person very not too sure. Now, what's the difficulty? We'll go to, guys, which were, like, certainly, which were my features. I asked them, they seem to be, right. So, what will be the available basis, right. So, what will be where, the model, which gets, confused in point will get, the situation for the model, if… This is the sequence, if the model has two features, they利 up approximately the same size, right. Then, what will be the situation when the model, is given to a model the, now, if I'm precise, right, I got to this concept, it's a osman set, a very good user, and a second one set, I'm going to play a check feature, right? So what I would say, is like, I pretty much have the same information, pretty much have the same, and there's something like this, it's almost easy, right? So now I can really show, I really show that the field tells where in a future, model will be a better, but what model it gets that series not to assign the big issue, food should I make more, like the first one was going to be a future, or the second one was going to check future, that many people already, it's an issue to take a minor data values of those features, right? Food to weight, maybe it can be possible, for example, take a question, why is it possible to 3x to 2? Similarly, if x and x both have, say, let's say in the same values, you'll get y, say, right? But that means, my model will fluctuate in deciding the data values for those situations, okay? That is what it might be going ahead, and why the features aren't here to pay attention, so for example, why the concern about this multiplicity, the first thing, I scratch, I I'm going to write, so I'll just write this one, but there was the future that we were going to write, our stuff was not there to figure it out, so if we are going to write, and the features should not be, the same thing is that we are not making model very good like, food very very accurate, because food because eventually, I had the same value, but we are also, in the field of model, I'm assuming that we are going to be able to figure out the value of the species, right? So, this is my particular identity, so, big, I have an example, this is the example that my teacher has shown me for understanding multiplicity, okay? So, let's say, this is y, okay, this is what we want to create, okay? This is x1, this is x2, this is x3, and this is x2. So, part of my current problem, I have a problem with this game diagram, y4, that you want to create, x1, features, multiplicity happens when we have near two similar features, right? Both are giving the same factor in the future, okay? What happens here? If you see the x1 part, just the x1 part, okay? So, if x1 is overlapping this much with y, right? That means, x1 is having significant stake in y, it is like able to create a significant proportion of y, okay? But if I see the relation between x1 and x3, this, so, let's imagine that this, just think that this red guys, let's say, take them off the yellow, right? Just think that one. So, what I'm trying to say is that x1 overlaps more than 5, and the similar features are x2, right? So, that means, x1 has a larger stake in y, but if we compare x1 and x2, that what happens, x1 and x2, don't really overlap. That means they don't really share any diagonal relation between the same, right? So, when you see x2 and x2, you also have your significant stake in y here. This is x2, which is having a significant stake in y, right? But if I compare x2 and x2, then we can see almost, almost, more than 75% of the x2 is over-living x2, right? That means, the amount of effort that the x2 is giving to the y is less than the amount of effort that x2 is giving to the x2. They are both share less in the big event, right? So, in that case, moving forward, what will happen? We'll try to, if this is the kind of a situation that arises in any kind of a feature, that those features internally are sharing more information than they are predicting our micro-diction, then what will happen? I'll choose only one feature. I'll run the error now, okay? I'll try to plug it. It goes with all these. Plug it into all these features. Let's say, an example that my age is x, okay? My age is 1, 9, or 28, whatever it is. So, my experience is five years or six years, right? Then I'll try to merge those into one single feature, both which means, right? A professional age change, right? Both of them. And if I go to 100, then I'll drop age, I'll only do 20 days. That is the two, when I lose all my equipment, it will become the next layer. But get an idea from the main diagram. This is how I use what I said, and what is there? One feature is maybe, let's look for a prediction, right? But at the same point of time, that feature is having so much of a prediction over what I do with the other feature, that is what might be cool, right? Okay? Okay. Now, going to an xp twice, this is nothing, but a fancy word to say, go on with x. Okay. So, there shouldn't be any single row that completes the entire data. Right? So, that's right, that is. Now, just need my experience. For example, you just go, I had almost a list, you just have this d61, remember that I do it. It might possible that you can come into the organization. I know, I feel it might go. So, these six other terms of innovation, maybe like you would write a section of them, and just tell that what these other terms mean, it's a simple language, that you'll be knowing about. Okay? And, yeah. So, see, now the plan is to see this. There are lots of boxed in, but I wanted you to see this picture. So, if like all of the six assumptions are there, to be into the linear evaluation, if anything fails out, then it will cause something to our prediction, right? But it is again, very much evident that not everything, which is very good, how am I going to reach it? I will see what actually doesn't need to be failed, like different ways, different, definitely going to avoid my prediction. And, like, something which is clearly simple, I am just going on that. So, the first thing is that you hear it with one model in the universe, the first thing is that you think that that's not being a wish. So, our model is being a wish, right? So, the first assumption of being a, that means, the three of them are actually data set, should be doing in a fashion, right? So, if I plot my data set, I cannot see a something like circle, right? If I plot x and y, every point, point, point, point, and plot, it doesn't form a circle, it is not linear data set. Or it doesn't form a closed shape, it is again not a linear data set. So, if my weight of the data set, actually data set, is not linear, then I cannot apply linear equation, right? My model will rest certain operation, right? So, if E1 is qualitative, right? Then my prediction will not be okay, okay? It will be not a matter of time. Basically, analog that we are using the linear equation, and we want our data to be in a linear system, I have to plot my data set to be a closed format, ellipstall format, whatever, I have to plot my data set to be linear. In that case, like you won't be able to apply linear equation, right? Because the line is always going to be linear, it grows as the x grows to the line of the output, that is what linear equation. So, we want our data set to be spreaded to a linear fashion, okay? The second part is independent, independent of course. You have seen, like last time, what we should be doing, we need to feature the words, errors, right? So, standard errors are, like for example, they are not independent, they are dependent. As I told you, we are having a, there is a, I am getting a 5, there you go, I am getting a error as plus 1 plus 2 plus 3, plus 1 plus 2 plus 3 something like that, okay? The error is still there, but it is only in general, both the units, like for example, it is the benchmark, my error always works on all the benchmark, it is never good enough, right? So, that is, we are having 5 different numbers, we are going to have a plus 1, 2, 3, 4, but the idea is, like the error is always good, we are not getting any counter-monger data, right? So, in that case, if the error is always good, the error is still there, for example, my actual values, I am 30, 20, I am 30, 22, I am 30, 23, and then I am 30, 21 again, 21.5, 22. So, in that case, we are above the actual value, but still my prediction is not close to that, so like 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, twice the above, 2, 2, step above something like that. So, if my error indicators has been compromised, there is still a slight chance that I will land to a good prediction for, okay? So, this is acceptable, like not acceptable in terms of the rules, but if we want to see like this, something that we are seeing, it can break my prediction in the log of the number, if it is like accommodated to our prediction number. So, if my error is not in different, then it might be possible that still we are on a good line in terms of prediction, okay? But not by people, this too homosilasticity, okay? So, this is what we learned, right? What is homosilence? Okay, like this is what I was saying very much, right? So, that is also, this is what we learned, so for example, my error is something like, let us say, minus 1, minus 1, 0, 1, 2, then minus the rule as a very easy, right? Which is a low point, variance means this spread of error, how spread the error? If I am having a error of minus 30, minus 1, 0, 10, 10, 10, plus 20, 10, plus 30, now I am having to do just spread of the error, right? But that is not the spread of the error, that is the spread of minus 2, okay? So, if my error is, like, minus 1 is spread from minus 30, plus 90, right? That kind of prediction is also very high, okay? Like, the principle is that spread from minus 2 plus 2, and the prediction is also very high, then we will not do that. So, my error is, the principle is spread out there, but if there is a top, then we can go on that kind of theory, not say that, those who are prediction, right? I think it is, that the principle is very good, but we are going to be the expectation that we have to learn the sharing, okay? So, 4-potter means, just you have to learn that there are 4-potter in independent vectors, and 4-potter means, are related to health, okay? And 4-potter means, are related to the shape of health, right? So, it is, my error sheet is being compromised, right? Then, we are dealing with error part, we have part is only having a problem with the share part, right? So, in that case, my prediction may not be, it will case that is one of the same, okay? So, this can be often compromised, okay? Then, the normal is, normal is what? Normal is the distribution of error, because it is a gauge showing you the shape of the error. I don't care, because the ideal situation is, you want your errors to be gone, and it is stupid, right? So, you don't want your errors to be like, normal is stupid, means, what? The expectation, whatever error is there, then that should have means, first two, zero, right? Normal distribution has a slight idea that means, zero, variation is in my side, that is the best factor, right? So, what I am trying to say is, I am having a model, okay? Normal it is nothing but it is, when you go into bias and fail in this amount, bias fail in this rate of, then you will know that what is not clearly, okay? So, if I say, I have read a model, the most predicting states of the equation, right? And that model is always predicting something, which is, like, it is the actual values to be, but by the order of predicting something, 45, 45, 46, 47, some like that. So, there is always a gap of the speed, the speed, the speed, the speed, the speed, that means, my model is always under the rate, then that is the problem, right? But still, you are seeing my passion, that is, I am under the rate, we also, actually, I have a critical problem, I am trying to solve this problem, so we are going to be, what they need to provide something, I am still at a very close gap to the actual value, we are going to provide, I have to say, 5, 3, but that, that gap is with respect to prediction, but if I see my model throughout, then my model is something which is under the rate of the model, because what I have to do is, right? So, whatever the actual number is, the time will be like, my model is always a critical, because the good thing, like, for example, it is a state school that is 500, and my model is critical, it is 100, 100, 100, because it is always a critical, it is not even 30 close to my actual, it is not even 40, it is 1000, it is always 100, and that is one of the time-honored activities, they can develop, so we want another model to be fluctuating on both the sides, so, for example, if my actual true value is 50, then I want my model to show me the errors like 48 to 3 key, right? So, 3 to 49 to 47, that is, if we are going on the axis of the law school unit, then sometimes we are also going to be using, so that the mean of the errors comes down to work, that has to work with you, the reason, in that case, my model is well balanced from under-pricing, a core rating, which is not only trained to under-priced, right? So, that is my future of model, okay? But, if my model is compromised of the errors, then like my prediction will not take effect, right? A prediction eventually will not be affected, so, true value is 50, I predict it, 50 to also, 50 also, it is really a high-end solution, really, right? Because already, for example, for me, the error is still changing, right? So, if the model is compromised, then we usually don't get much. This term is in the prediction, okay? And, go already, this is from it, see, my dignity, you got it, right? That concept, you are good enough, because that is also important. What is my dignity? Teachers, teacher, seminar, and the school. Prof. Teacher says similar answers, over-laping details, over-laping information, right? Why we are having the features, okay? So, if multi-colonies are there, with the features as in similar characters, then the model will perform very, very well, right? All the features are there, you do. So, try to remember, okay, if my dignity is compromised, that means my actual data fit is only compromised, then how can I go ahead and expect a more result from a dignity algorithm, right? So, then through the prediction, we will go back to the problem. Then, if we can get some of the results, these things are related to errors. If something is happening with the error, it might be a chance that my model can still be close to my creation. Then, the whole point will visit the operating team. We want our errors to be distributed, not only that, but that doesn't like the effect of the stir, my water prediction. The result is no variability. That means, I am having some multiplicity in my case, then in that case, the model means pretty good, right? Therefore, this item of act that the key is very not rooted, not caused by one, and the other one also mentioned that the key is very not rooted. Then, I am a model and I ensure that the key is definitely very not rooted. Now, it is going to be a tiny bit, a bit like a little bit of a future or a future, right? So, in that case, the multi-minutes exist really, it needs the model of complexity for sure, to develop a negative formation in the future, but model technique predicts the prediction will not be compromised. It might be surprisingly good also, right? So, surprisingly good in one sense, now I know that it is a blue shirt, and a check blue shirt, then I will do my analysis of code of things. Like check blue shirt has a blue shirt, like today's information overlooking to you, right? So, in that case, my model prediction will not be compromised, then the whole point, no intellectual point, means simple words, outliers, if the outliers is there, if our clients are anything, then the model is going to be more common. So, for example, if my whole data point, if my point is in the graph, I have to go on a one and keep on a new high-bottied, or something like, go on a new one. So, we are at a really starting stage, the rows to the origin points, right? So, then I go on a point, which is having a low one thousand power to 1 point. That will disrupt my entire vessel. So, that is the idea of an influential point, right? Also, an influential point, and these things, the rows, let you get the rows, there will be an influential piece of also, like the row of that, then I will have a pattern, simple sheet. So, by now, what would happen, if you plot some graphs, the influential point, okay? Then what would happen, you have code of my loop, you have to come on and just close to origin, that's like, you have one point, which is to go to the power of a common field. That is it. If you move it, then your graph is showing two heads, right? Now, you don't have to view of the entire graph. Now, it's still in the sheet, right? So, the ideas are, the time is when an influential point is there, okay? So, we don't want two things to be there, influential one, and not the enemy, for the enemy. Okay? If these two things are compromised, then my prediction can be asserted by the resistance. We can take that off, and we move very much. But for the assumption, you want all of these things to be getting there, okay? Then, that is one of the consequence. If we go slightly, slightly, slightly, it's not a good question for me. And I already explained it in the past. So, x transpose x is the last time we saw through the final data equation, right? So, let's say, this, and this equation, first, forget this equation. First, and the standard points we've also calculated, they're y equals 2, x, what is that? Linear. Linear regression, but we don't have matrix form, right? So, if we write a super linear regression, it will be like y equals 2, t, t, x, we actually see that. Now we acquire all the data in a simple data, right? And all of x1, x2, rescue features into one single x� vector, right? So, this is not one of matrix form. So, we drill in. Well, now this is kind of where we have this E of, small e equals to Karilo, and this is just one and tissue samaRack's level. That means, my error is normally distributed. Okay. And my genetics eyesight. Identity matrix. to see my study. So this is my, this is the whole eruption of all the wave. I want my errors to be into a normal fraction, right? I don't want my errors into a fraction target, like plus one, plus two, plus ten, plus thousand, plus two thousand. Then that is not a problem, like the water is going to be similar, like in a similar space hat, not access, very difficult, like you are very, very, very, very difficult, really, really, really, like this underpottles, the same, right? So this thing is the first one, which is expectation of data, which is data from virus and data is seen by the spread of X, transphorias, pinevose, right? So what is X transphoros of X? In the last class, we have heard it is R, X, and X, whatever, this X is there, we can have a size closely, so whatever this can be done, right? So if two features are overlapping, then my X transphoros actually be all similar at X, right? Then it is, it was, it's not going to be specific, right? Then I can simply be similar, right? And if my data is a similar, right? Then I can get the data from that equation, which is named as normal equation, right? If that would be right, I think that the question is what is the normal equation? So for linear equation, the core assumption from where all the six assumptions that are coming to the picture is this would be, the 1,000 model to Venus situation, that is like to cover all the aspects, it doesn't cover the aspect which is below the reason, right? Or about the reason, right? So it should be the situation that it has spread all over the, this is a method, not too far, not too below also, but in a situation that covers like most of the parts, it is in that. That is my question, okay? And yeah, this is not so, the linear equation is this data, right? And the polarity is, you X transphoros X, which doesn't really exist when your features are going to be, right? So that things become, right? Then it will come to, where I get some potentials, right? So, I have to say, that is the same thing that you have in the nostrils, to see that, that we are in the nostrils, we assume, like there was a situation where we have the x, that should remember we would be 5 minus x, that was nothing but the error, then we saw that if any error is there, we want that error to be an upper-fending relation to the actual one, so that is the same thing, right? That is from the same thing, just thing that in my, that is, I want my, I want my linear equation to be a previous case, I want my time model to go, I want my linear equation to be a core value, right? I want my algorithm to spread, you want to go to that, right? It's not a new spread, something about something to do that. So, that, that is not true, it's not true, but what is it? What is the solution? Right? That is the right answer, okay? Now, this is, right? What I need, right? Just remember that, it only holds it good, right? This is, the last one and this is OS is true, right? For the last one, for the equation, so by example, in the last, last one, last one, I think, I told you my assumption, right? There is a mean squared error, we want to mean this squared error, if we want to be high to mean this squared error, then what is our risk rating? So, that will be our best variation, if we want to minimize our needs squared, this is the same thing that we've got smart growth, just a statement nothing more than that, that if the boss smart growth results are there, then all this is blue, all this is nothing but our linear equation squared, okay? And blue is that the best linear and biased equation, okay? That means that the most condition of the needs is to solve our growth in the previous, that means if you squared, this squared error is there, and then you have a greater variance of growth, which is plus two, so minus two, minus one, plus one, plus two, I create the variance of these things, then if I actually remember, then that variance will be the minimum variance, this is the assumption of smart growth, just what I can say, our Pythagoras to a 10% that is, in our height and the base, then I just got the risk rating, so that is the same assumption, which is there in the boss smart growth, similar to this. So, this is a time, for boss smart growth, but my name is not real, so boss smart growth is not quite a condition, right? We have a given system condition set, D6, right? But for boss smart growth, we do not mean, our value is so, someone asked you, what is the condition, which is required for boss smart growth, all the conditions which are there in the assumption of linear regression, except for my name, right? We do not want our errors to be distributed or already, because the bond, but it does not be a factor for that assumption. If someone asked you, what is the rule of that boss smart growth, you would say that everything is there in the linear regression assumption, all the system assumptions are there, but for boss smart growth, we can exclude our value, we do not mean the boss smart growth, okay? So, that is one thing, so, now really, yeah, okay, we are coming to this thing, just let me do inside which our value will be from the linear regression, which you can be, can, how do you compromise the rate boss? The error being quite. Usually, the error is not, usually the error is not, usually the error is not, usually the error is not, usually the error is not, usually the error is not, then the second, the second power is not, okay, so, you can just stop my idea, also, what can happen if there is a linear regression, yeah, so, if there is a problem, then in the cool features, similarly, I think, the cool features are sharing the same information to the better, then, with both necessarily, for any time of the system, it is my prediction, it is just like, I want to say, if your prediction is not, it is not, it is not, but my prediction cannot be, if you are in the situation, then, what is, my errors are not independent. If my errors are not independent, it is dependent only, like plus 2 plus 3 plus 4 plus 5 plus 6, then my model is going into one direction only, like it is not, or really good model, like, I have taken a whole variety of model, or, or, or, you are taking a whole variety of model, right, you are not going to see model, okay, okay, now, we are moving into the diagnostic point, okay, we have learned the assumption of the linear regression, we have learned the assumption to do it too, we have learned what the assumptions are, really, really good, to make a model good, and what the assumptions can be optimized, and will not be much, like this, will not force much, this is, this is, this is, you know, very very good, right, that is the positive vision. Now, how we can use, this, this is going to go down the board, just make that 3 plus 3, just, this is a linear equation. So, this is, our, the graph, the graph is having a spread of, what, not very good, this is a spread of the sequence, this is done by, same resolution, why actually, I have already, part of the theme of the vision. That is very simple, so, that was my initial view sheet. So, what will happen, just try to understand, talk, use your client, draw it, and then, tell you. So, let us say, this is, now, factor of my residual, okay, residual means what, error. If I plot my errors, it will show me this graph. Then, what will this graph be? If I have my residuals, that is, why, why, why, that, so, why, my flow, if I plot, that, this is like, a rather residual, so, and what will happen, that graph be? Try to get an intuition that, what is this graph, try and glitch, take me. As you, feel me in a situation that you have to, see the graph and then, you have to get an intuition that, this is my residual is looking like this, with, with my normal flow, just try and have a look, take two minutes, but, try to understand what this graph is looking, and this is, what my error graphs. Okay, so, let's say it is something like, hmm, one, two, three, four, or maybe five, and there also, one, two, three, four, five. Okay? That, what, what does that graph actually, try and glitch, that, how the model is created? Just, how the intuition, you have to develop this thinking, to see the graph, or maybe that how the model is created? Yeah? Sorry? Ah iş. True. Not a real thing. You've also changed the paradigm, yeah. Tell me, the graph is commands. Okay. First thing, Very loose, very loose, good of the loose, but very loose. That is the same, for example, what this error is, we should do it, we are having some to do it, it is the right, the right, that is the right, so if we come to that any one, so what is happening, my error is starting at a very high speed, going down, down, down, down, down, down, then the opportunity at a very high speed, right? It is down for certain time degree, and it has two major observations and both are right. So, the first step also is going down to one five, it is the same time, it is also going down to one five, right? If that is my error, it is having extreme values and one global value, okay? Two extreme values and one global value, same as next session, we will start reading, this is the data graph and we take a data graph, that is also there. So, that is what the good case water error, right? So, for example, if you go back into this line, this is the future, right? Let us say this again, this is something which is, this is a thing of power of a coin shape, right? This is a bit of error, you draw a error, error, right? It is something which is the model of coin shape, then what is this error showing you? This is right for example, if I am standing at a starting of the success, and if I am using my algorithm, this is the model of success, then my error is correct, this is going down, right? That is what the good case water error is, for example, if I go into three, the amount of number of high-reson operation, the error is keep on going higher, higher, higher, higher, higher, higher, higher, higher, very important. In linear equation, we saw that we have a homosylastic visor, the H1 assumption, this is a very, very important thing, right? So, necessarily what we have in a linear equation, see from here in the air, the process is not much, right? The heat is still water, light, air, we are getting like slightly higher fluctuation. Mike, mean that our prediction does not get much affected, but only for one of life. Along with this success, again, my error will be having a very, very huge sparse gap in the air, right? This is the ideal case in the world that we want to do, right? No spread, not a fraction error should be an ugly spread through the axis, right? This is what I saw about something a lot, something a lot, right? Generally, if I see the spread and try to converge it, we can say, the prediction light as the mean, right? It will be slightly above and slightly below the prediction light. These patterns are not more in theory, that if the error is making you a huge shifter, that means that it is following a pattern, right? That, for example, it goes 5432-0456789, there was something like that. Then the error incident is following a ground. You have to check it, the full data set is what we are trying to model, that data set is what we are trying to model. So, the error incident is not mean, it is a huge shifter, it is a curve graph, right? So, in that case, that what is the amount is mean, it is a large. Okay? For example, this is a narrow velocity, right? This is not almost a velocity, one that spread of the error will be even similar with as this. This is how the constant is spread, it is not like that very much, like 20 nanobetters, it is not like that very much, it is not like that very much, it is not like that very much. So, this is the curve in clusters, that means we are having this kind of all, clusters in one of them, you have seen clusters graph, right? So, for example, clusters we have this thing. So, clusters this, if my error is really like this, right? Some of the observations that error is actually generally, for some, there are fluxed in one of the very, you have to scale up the x and do this very well, some are there only, okay? That means our data itself is not good, it is not complete, right? Yeah, not have a good error, maybe it is correct, why do you do that? Because, which you do some other reports, you will get something else, right? And those reports, which I close, you will get something else on there, right? So, the errors are forming group for certain point, the error are converging at the origin, right? Certain point there, obviously, on the x and c, for certain point there are, then how is our x axis of y axis also? And that point is my error, it is not only like this, right? It is not that, right? Then my data, then there is a chance that my data itself is not complete, we are having the same problems, okay? So, this is the third thing, and the fourth thing, trying to open photo correlation, remember that, after that, it is the very first class I have given you, for 10 core, this second class I have given you, the probability of this was related to time system, right? Time system is all related, right? So, the probability was related to time system, right? That means, it's, I have given, a data set which is based on time system's humanity, which is pretty much the same, twenty, twenty, twenty, twenty, twenty or five, twenty says so, and then I have, there, a random spreading on thread is needed, you possible that are created when you are getting this is going to all be created. And when you do that I just give you that, it is the closed system that is going to be created this time, it is not already created. Now this is the back of the arrow which is having been planned over it has so far up now this is expected, right? So plus two minus two, quite as I am not of this event, right? But if I am talking about title, then what is that? See that is the definition to this is what it is. Tomorrow is the new and all is ready to be created. That is 31, that is 31, that is 33, not 32. This is nothing but this is not the pattern of x or y, this is something, this is not the index of x or y, this is the pattern, right? My model is all this is going to be created for the increasing pattern. What happens is that it is a cost to 29. But my model is how do I frame that it is all that is happening, right? In that case, this is one of those relations, because my model is taking what my model is taking. So, we basically got to break you to also this. Then, you just do this, but just not break you to also what is left, right? That is the right situation to be, if you want to be the model is only in the original and it is not good. And the original model is the same. You need to work with this. So, basically this is not pattern and the error, that is going to be the picture. So, first and foremost, we think that we are learning to make one assumption of the information. It all starts with data, right? So, we started with the engine that even if we are having four sample of the data, they are having same needs, same maintenance, right? Same as the shape can be different, right? So, the first people do is we see the actual shape of the data, right? We see the proper shape, it is a really big thing, right? Now, after doing all of this, the assumption we see the shape of the result, right? Then, the model is the real shape of the data. Then, it also has the transformation, right? So, for example, if I am seeing what you use here, the third ratio is the pressure. Then, I will think that it is something that is having the pattern, right? If I get all this to begin with, this, the crashing equation, right? Then, I will see that what is happening in my area, okay? My principle is I am in pressure, then I will see what is the machine information, right? We are only in the 40-watt transmission, there at this side, if you want, then you are having to move your success. That is the second intuition. We are trying to find the base to make out a prediction, right? So, the first one is the retima, the second one, the funnel, but I have already showed the graph, please say, I have already showed, I said, I already showed, okay? Then, now, just, this can also come, right? Wait. My theory is in the condition, I will be asked, right? So, that is the distribution for R's in my calculation back, okay? This is nothing but, you have to remember that, right? Just do not worry, okay? Just keep going and don't do all the tests, right? Both are there only. We have calculated, we do not, calculated, not, we have calculated, and the results, right? That is the interference, we are not going into the discomfort test at all. If, if you have the phase, I will just give you a one for a problem, I will try to have one for example, let us say, what I say? For example, pressure is going above 40 degrees, right? So, we have to find the problem of the high pressure, right? The term, it has a very important value, right? So, what is what we find? Because we may 45 has a large part, right? So, that is the same thing, right? We have two checks, what two different thing, and we need to know which check is from what we think, right? So, if you know this, you check the normal, you know, it is what again, normal distribution, that is the best check, the best check of the per-water, that is the difference, right? So, for example, it was amazing, which one normal type? So, we check the useful, and then we check the better, how the spread is, which spread is there, which is an order of action, that is what we keep testing. This kind of issues, we need to know, the probability of error, just remember that, it is some of us asked you, that I want to check the probability of error, which is the issue, then you should be able to pass a few, or that we want to add to the wrong, okay? Then, this is the constant test of a delay, that means it depends what, the error I am not really easy to, each other they are independent, for example, plus 1 minus 5 plus 1 minus 6, something like that, not in a linear fashion model, in a dependent fashion, that today's plus 1, tomorrow it will be just 2, they have to tomorrow it will be just 3 plus 4, 3 will be 2 of us, that is the case, right? You should have that, right? So, this is the single number. So, for example, talking about side test, is the value is approximately 2, just remember the value, okay? If the value was as, if the values do that test find, if the values be as 0, then it is form positive correlation, and if the, if there is a value, which is greater than 2, or 2, then it is a form, the correct risk correlation, okay? Then, remember, easily values. For dWP, it is a test of independence of variable, just remember that, okay? And for values what it is, if dWP is similar, like closer to 2, then it is fine, if dWP is closer to 0, or like, let us say not equal to, but closer to 0, then it is form positive correlation, and if it is closer to 4, then it is strong negative correlation, this starts to be problem, this time, okay? And say what will be not, if you do not see, if not, there is a duality, it is looking at, like, the same delta, not, then it is going to go, right? That is the test, okay? Now, we have seen these two tests, now we will see, multiplicity and VF, wants to be straight to 5, right? Because this is, it is not something that you require, little bit of instant. Straight to 2. CTL, 4, because in the state, 5 minutes or 10 minutes, then it will pass, right? Okay. Okay. Speed is, show it on the right hand. Okay. When an assumption, out of the six is not held to, no, three or four assumptions, and then you are doing it to the residue, and the end result. So, and the one is world linear relationship, and one is world multiple analogy, most were about the features. So, how do you know which, if a good assumption no, hold you, right? So, where does the error die in the data set? Because eventually data set or algorithm, they are correct. One is about data set, one is about the other four, whatever is on, how do you know which one is 40, because of which, which our assumption holds correct. So, there. This is the six other assumptions, like linearity, we are assuming that systematically, bias predictions. So, for example, let's say predictions, this column, the dynamic, right? So, here I have often, yes, often yes, or usually yes, this is like, that if these predictions are compromised, then like if it is compromised somehow, then will it be in a situation that my model will break? Will my prediction will be okay or wrong? If my predictions are okay, even if my conditions are like little bit compromised, then it is good. For example, take a few more, take normality, normality, normality means, that our, the residuals are not my prediction. The normality is, which, directly correlated, if our, is the, almost, homosodacity is the same. Equally, that means, it is the same as, homosodacity means, zero, zero mean, variance. Yes, sorry. Variance, see, it means that, but normally distributed is like, zero, as, plus, yes, minus 1, zero, so in that case, my error value is minus 2, minus 1, zero, plus 1, plus 2, right? Now let's say, I am making a model. Okay. Model is always in a situation that, I will predict it. I want to predict your watch. Right? So, if it is actual value, 50 units, but my model is always like, 47, 48 units, 49 units, 47 units, again, as you can see, the prediction is, 47 units, that is also good. Your predictions, if you see, you can see, two unit units, as close as, predicting the actual value. But as a model, it is not good. Okay. First, the model, your always, under-predicting model. Sometimes, it can be possible, a good model is like, what? That, your line, you can't fluctuate, not in the middle, it's fluctuating, 51, 52, will be also good. It is also two units far away. Right? But it is covering a broader point. Now, if that thing breaks, then your prediction can be okay. Can be okay. 47 is still okay. You are close to the prediction. But your model is compromised. Your model is not in a good state. But if you notice, two classes, well, you are going to go, it is better if the model over-predicting. Right? That's what the case is. It is better if you slightly over-predicting. It is better if you slightly over-predicting. It is not okay if, it is best if it is around the line, it is both a pre-predicting. But if it is all slightly over-predicting. It is not, not very cool. It is just a pre-predicting. Because if you are a little overproducer, this is the industry, industry, it is going to vary. Look, the span looks like two industries. Because the medical industry, one, two, one, two, it is okay. You have an example, it is your product. That is like expired. If you overproduce it, if you live in a shelf, it is expired. You can't do that in FMCG. You can't do that in a food case. You can do that in retail case. My friends should use the case. Our model should be more pretty. Or the product should be darker. So that is the case. If you should over-predict it or under-predicting it. The depends on the alpha value, the type of testing that you are testing. The alpha value. Now, look at the hypothesis. At the time of hypothercycel, we take a linear assumption that our model has been made in the same direction. I will decide on the case of my use case. In retail, it is a little over-prediction. It is a little over-prediction. It is not bad. In food, it is bad. In the case of these two, the other four, this and this compromise should not be done. If you have a linearity, your actual data is not packed, it is like this. And the influences point is very good. Yes. Your price and the price of your data are very good. The compromise is not that the prediction is not more effective. But this is the case. The case of these three, when you put the patent in the case of the real and corrective. The case of the case of the case of the real and corrective. The case of the case of the real and corrective. Yes. Good example. The medical industry is actually a real example. You cannot want your data to be as much as you want. Yes. That is a really good example. That is the actual world's scenario. Your data is only your prediction and your model. It is a real example. Yes. And the service of this cost for us in Jairads, I have come after the last one. So, I have to be more careful. That is the normal thing. It is just to remember it. As an intuition. In the last class, what does that approach generate? As I have told you in the last one, when I am using a mean square as a term, what is the best prediction for that? The best prediction for that. The last one. So, for such a cost, when I am using an ordinary least square, then the best linear regression line is not used. But, when you are using a data that you have in the last class, you are using a normal equation with that data. That is what if you want to reduce the ordinary least square. That is the only assumption. That is the QQ and Darwin worst scenario. You just remember that you use the normality of QQ. You have another test. It is a vital world theorem. QQ and QQ can be interchangeable. KDE, KDE, Blood and QQ. You told me QQ, Blood, QQQ is a test of normality. And Darwin worst scenario is a test of independence. It is a whole one-reserval. And, in KDE, I don't have the clarity. If I get a clarity, then I don't want to talk about it. So, KDE, If I get a clarity, then I will talk about it. Okay. Okay. Just rules. My way possible is that I can ask you. I like it. Yes. Yes. Yes. No, no. QQ and assumptions. I can ask you an example. What is the difference between the calculations? What is the difference between the calculations? No. I mean, I mean, it is a theory. Okay. Okay. Sorry. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. So, I think we already have discussion that over landing information in the features, ordering features, fruits, vegetables, orange, orange… Now, this is BIS. BIS, question has to come. The variance, creation, flour right? right? Here, stands for weight gain and stimulation factor, okay? By weight gain and stimulation factor, last class, last two last class, I wrote to you that R is square, basically not a good factor, it is a matter, but you cannot play a kind of Bc R is square, that could be today I was so, today I was so, like, all, like, I have 4 to 3 different, like, all that I actually have, I wrote to you, the number of I need to have the number of R is square, but it is still in its possible advantage, it is like, right? So, R is square, this is what, B I can do, I have the same variation in the V I think, so, for example, R is for a sport, it is 2, 1, 8, 0, 1, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 24, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 12, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, этого sharing, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 18, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 59, 10, 15, 11, 10 last, 59, 2019, than 35 days alone. Now, we have to deal with this. This is like a volume plus we are having three features. PIS is something that we are going to use to deal with multi-goliniality. PIS is one factor factor in the discussion feature. So, PIS is a factor that can help us to how many people we can deal with. That means how much feature to people we can deal with. So, once we were calculating the R-S-S-R model model, which was equation 1, this is something that we are going to write. What? Yeah, this is the real example of the R-S-R model model. So, for example, in the last class, we were having we calculated the R-S-R for this. Y is equal to beta-m, beta-mx1, beta-2, and beta-3-x3. This is the linear equation. Now, we have to have to deal with the R-S-R model. Now, what happens when I am talking about multi-goliniality? Multi-goliniality is what? Some features sharing overlapping information. So, now, just look at this here only. What features are we having here in this equation? X1, X2, X2. It can be possible that X1 and X2 are sharing the same type of information. For example, if we are predicting salary, salary, then this can be age. This can be experience, and this can be, that is it usually. So, for example, a guy who is having a age of 30 years, I am taking the assumption that all of them are working to cooperate. So, a guy who has age 30 years, will be having a greater experience with a guy who is age 21 years. So, this guy might have a age experience of 8 years, but this guy might have experience of 1 years. So, basically what happens? My X1, H, and X2. These are trying to put a bigger, same type of information. This is really overrated, we are expecting. So, now, what happens? Just to get an intuition, that if we are calculating an R square in case of linear regression. And if we are now calculating an R square, it does some multi-duty. Then, one classic thing that we do is let me remove the target. So, here previously, what we were trying to do, why? But if we are trying to get the R square for features, then I will make one feature as a target. So, for example, what I will do, I will do X1, X2, and X3. Right? Someone ask that. Okay. So, this is the core option that we are getting. What does it say? This equation is called, why we were supposed to be done on X1, we can do X3, we can do X3. This is what? I think that we are getting how our minds are changing to this vector of X. I think we want to get a fine multi-mole healthy. Then, this is the equation. So, this is the equation, this is what, how my one feature is structurally based on two features. So, if I have to get the R square for this, then I get to know that, for example, if I can get the R square for Y's, then what is the function? That, if I get the R square for point 9, then what is the function? That, if I just get that 90 percent of the radius is captured by a power. That is the function of the R square for this way. That, how my one single feature is related to two different features. And, if I get R square for point 9, then that means that, if I have single features, these captured by the formation, the classical features, these captured by other features, right? So, that means, for a peak, we need to get a peak. So, R square is, R square 1 is my property, 100 percent the formation captured. So, if my, if my main property, if one feature is like, having 90 percent, 95 percent radius captured by the other feature, that means that feature is not having any unique information, right? Those information can be derived from these features also, that is the same thing, not get back to that example. You got the intuition, right? But, we have, we have a regression, we have a predicting mind, thoughts of X, right? We have seen that, how our body is getting persuaded off then, if we would actually do, if we have good data, we can be really like, good size, right? Then, for example, if the R square is construed, we have pointed part 9, 3, you know, right? That means, 90 percent of the variation, our body is able to have the 10 percent of the power. So, if we move there, if I have X1 is goes to, X2 is goes to, X3, that equation, and thoughts of getting that one feature, they better call it the root. Then, I asked where is the only point that you have to find? Then, I can see that my X1, 90 percent of variation in my X1 is lowered by X2 and X3. Right? These are my power. They are not related to the motion, that is the correct. Okay? Someone asked you, for example, that is what we are trying to flip through. In linearization, we are trying to, why is the target? But, in multi-coloured, DPRS, R square, we keep one signal variable, and the target to see how this is defined, it would not have the two variables, other two teachers, okay? So, this is what we are trying to do, this is the law, right? We have R square, it will be zero percent variation, right? So, if we move R square, it will be, that what we need to be able to, what? Right? If we move R square, then what will we know, we are trying to, 10, right? 0.10, or, if we put R square as 1, which is 1 square, right? Then it will be, R square is infinity, it goes high, then, R square is, where it is, the variation pattern, the variation is what, R is, right? Just, for example, this time we have inflation, right? The rate, 70 percent, 60 percent, here all the, so inflation is right, right? So, variance is, inflation, that means how much variance is right, right? If we want our variance to be constant, right? That's my assumption. So, wait, my R is, so I will keep some increase in, that means my model feature is, having like, total population of the other feature, then, R is, when we keep, if my R is, when we keep, then, like, the denominator will go, it's, it's, it's, right? So, that's the, it's, I guess, inflation, that's the value, if you are dividing it with something, that's, then, it's, that my variance is 3, right? Then, that is not, correct? So, for example, this, now, we have a short, we have to look at this, so, if we want to, what is the, what is the, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, first, firsts, firsts, firsts, firsts, firsts. We know some top-off, the own macaron. The cookie bite. We know some top-off, We know some top-off. The cookies. So, 2 and a half hundred� ingredients, 10 했습니다. So, take thelies, take the Τ. Okay. That, that means, that groups itselfねぇ. true, we declare a tie- Sanskrit. So, we, we mark Rishol愛box. So, we are having point i r square that is when we are taking t at s 10 right. So, that is a point we are going to be first ok. Now, this is if the r square is 1 only first first and foremost that is itself is wrong right. We have like r square i is 1 that is 100% of the feature of x 1 is the order by feature of x 2 r x 3. Then we are in various equation after as in real time. Then that is also wrong right. First and foremost this is the my main point is the point of the plot of the order was in. For feature right because very few that move was in real time. And what was in real time is we do not know people have shared in the same condition. One has shared in the line that we wanted to do. So, I have another part of the scene that we will be doing share and what should I do to transport right. I just I am even raised or I will send like 3 to 5 7 something like that. But the model is like I have had a like 2 formation series you are saving a what should I do to do that right. That is the coefficient since and since will be there is like this right. If we get that used that what was I ok. So, just remember this this is like that if the initial situation factor is increasing but I know this is increasing right. Then it is a problem right. And how the variance situation factor is really like this. How to add this and the idea of order is that this is how the variance situation is going. Any time form is like like order is by a means of certificate. It is based on the assumption that we want our variance to be fixed right. We do not want our variance to be very nice right. Okay now this is the one. So, this is the right move see a 3 line we have distributed pattern. It is still in order this thing. So, we have a number of this thing. We can have a huge variance right. It is normally distributed but this spread is not going to be big in this group right. So, the second problem we have high probability that high probability that means the variance is really high. That is the same thing. Just a drop of the representation of our group right. Whenever there is a low variance it will be normally distributed and distributed right. Whenever like there is a very very flat kind of curve which is very very spreading out that is going to be what an idea is right right. So, graphically if you want to plot the variance so, let us say if I plot like this right. It is just a graphical intuition if I plot something like this then what it is see. This is also how I want to distribute right. But what? So, what is right. So, right is too that means most of my data points are right. So, that is too. Now, if I say if I plot it like this let us say does this have a high variance by the way yes yes it is having a high variance. Now, if I plot something like this then it is perfect like normal distribution not really too into the development then like if I plot something like this left to skew my all the way are the other way but what I am going to do the right side, right. So, this is what normal like do not be normal distribution is something which is like this would be right. It can be shifted it can be like that or like maybe you flip the solution on this that is an intuition that from the graph we are taking it. So, if you see this graph it is actually like really this spread but there is awindow now. Well okay, now just tell me again the only one in the short of tempo what i will do that. I can just explained the intuition that way begin with it that way their encrherical sense that meaning is prepared and go fi So, you know what the factor is, the better the rate is, right. The higher the factor, the more the rate is, right. And about this is for my B.I. like, same goes for all this. This my all this is like, this B.I. is like, right. This is a direct like, relationship. Thank you to you. But my all this is going to end like, then it is having like 90% of the weight is already displayed. And our basic weight is the inflation factor. It's called as fat. R is 1. Weight is the inflation factor is only 3. Right. So, higher the factor, higher the weight is the inflation factor, higher the weight is the inflation factor, higher the weight is bad. The more the R is to be the good rate. And that's when 5 is better than 2. Something like that. Okay. Now, these three tops, my B.I.s, there's all the drop. Right. So, we have now seen, we have already told like, what is called higher and, right, point of that. The usually three top, right. Something like this. Out of the normal situation, we have something far away, something very, very sparse. Okay. But if you go back to the book, right, every world has its own destination. Right. So, for example, out of the air, this is usually, why do I have something like vertical? Okay. So, let's say, if this is the point, like these are the point's air. Okay. And if I plot this, now this thing is higher the equation, so it is equal to out of that. So, we have to have a, this thing, why then, right, that is not fair. Okay. For us, we say that out of that, something which is happening of the least parts when you come to normal, it's too difficult. You know, for normal, it's normal, it's not difficult. It's a matter of, it is happening very high. But, you know, it is a matter of, it is a matter of, it is not fair. So, this is out of that. Now, if I plot something like this here, sorry. Yeah. This is, like, we can see that this is also not fair, right. But, in the vertical terms, this is what is in the range. Okay. So, in the range, something which has three X values, how to add something like three Y values, right. Now, there is a point called in sequence, right. Usually, what happens, like, we can say in sequence as a mix of both, like, both leverage and outlier, like here. This is an influence, right. And why this one is influence is that, when I remove this one, then it will change the background of my data. Something that you, that you will remove, then you can even take a look at it. That is what it is influence, right. Our plan, like, we have seen that it is also, if we want to, like, do just this world as if we want to do something, some operation, or, or, or, or, or, or, or, or, or, and what we do, we try to cap that, somehow scale it, something like that. But it can be removed, but it influences a point, right. It will be removed that point, right. As the nature is, right. So, for example, it influences, that's an age is something, or it gives us something that it influences a sound, right. So, that, that, that feature is a very, very, very important parameters of sound, right. So, it influences a point that actually influences your data, and if you change it, then, if you want to remove that data, then it will, that they are not, they will, they will not, they will be compromised. What they will event, that's, they don't have a change, right. So, that is what it is called influence, same in this, like, bunch of people say. Remember, this is the only loose buzzer we have. So if I, if I remove the out lines, see what happens is I am happy that x axis is out there right which I am happy know why x is out there. So, if I remove a x axis out there then what happens only my x nabs will be compromised right because why was already there must open another my normal data what I want to keep open, what I want to keep open, keep open, keep open, keep open, keep open something like that. Then suddenly what happens there is one data set which is that is 15 form 1, 2 then y axis is 2 but x axis is 50 right. Now my x axis is got a string, one is it, y is still there, y out there is there if I remove it y axis got string right but if something is both at the out there and the number which is x 3 on x axis and y axis both if I remove that then it will is right both of my x's both will string the entire shape will change right. That is the end of one of the data line will change right and because I am very good know so for the but it is not limited only to for the it can be to feature also. So, if there is something which is very into it, for example I have a file set of features and my main feature is very influential get the salary and my experience which I have some like that it is okay and if I remove it then my scalability prediction gets really compromised that is what is the picture plan right. If my age is something is having a graph that is not really good then I can compromise not even high I can say that it also fits like that is not really compromised then I can be also time to do that I can remove that at the time but it is the real feature which is very pretty influential and as I will add removing that because changes data that is a good idea right. So, the definition changes we just need to do that alpha something definitely is like really how to sort the normal data how it is getting validated but now if we go back to that how that is the one is having speed by the outcome x and y. Level x is how it is having speed x and then the one which is having influential status is having that speed that you have to entirely data x and y both which is right that is why it is not allowed. So, removing that you change both of the sides and it means the y axis is also an axis scale of that is the one not related to coordinate that well feature as somewhere like whatever is getting like very very high priority on the prediction that is your friendship right. For example, if I so I tell you that you go and talk to really let me check for example that sir put this question in the examination right and I go and talk to the person that sir put this question in the examination right. So, maybe I will go and tell he there might be time that we push right. So, that is influential that what is like really is you can also tell he will put it until this I do not tell right. So, that is a weighted display right that is that is the form of the lesson. Okay. So, this is one parameter just remember so we have if you give these terms right that people realize tomorrow is not very wise on the problem right. So, push this is not mean but this is not meant to be a good person right. So, what I am going to say is that sir is not a good person right. Then we will remember that is why push this is used to better be a good person that sir just remember this one. Okay. Now, we talk about the remedies here I think I actually talk with. So, for example there is a normally time in fact, then we use quite only if it is normally a means what. So, for example let us say like this. This is my x this is my y right. Now, if you see if you plot this graph right if it is something that is because at y is goes to x is right. So, this is not even linear right. So, if my graph is not linear then I will not use these as I will use long models on different models that is what we are going to say that kind of the option. If my correlation between x and y is not going to be a linear linear then I will move this and this is coming lecture that this is called session right. So, session will be seen the period design 6th and 7th it will be mostly on bias and on that 8th will be moving into logistic definition from there on what we see logistic, here and any whatever like the other algorithm. But the own idea is this is my data is not even linear I will not use linear regression I will go with other models that is the remedy right. Now, come into this one. So, heterosuracety that means high values, homo-suracety is constant equation right. heterosuracety is high values then we use log transform. Right. Just remember we use log transform. My thing is we combine the feature x1 and x2 have in the same information. We have experience I will say information. We derive the new knowledge and this is called professional experience out of this. So, my or really similarly broad case experiences working the same for me I will not use it. That is the solution for my main goal. Okay. Outliers. By and specifically investigate first don't remove it right. That outlier can be also in the flow initiative right. So, that is why we have used to first see when it is ready if I if I let me move and outlier because I need some good information that I can use that in the course. That is not all you have to do in that outlier. Already we have to know that outlier. That is the secret that outliers have in the training. You have to talk about that data. Then you try or see that what type outliers. Then you try for example let's say in the last also we have one feature which is I have very very very very how use price that is the how to use it. It is a huge price of 50,000 rupees. I will go to. Okay. It can be a case that it is a new product that the leverage has realized as large into a new category price that I can hire price. And then only move that product. My impossible that realizes the loving that product producing that product into the small space by doing the dynamics of something that they also wanted for us to be the right for that. But now see that as a big high price for that only this will be like an outlier and move that product would be. For next month I will be the for that for that I will be a big company. So that is the case I have a lot of something there that you have to see for this actually I think I have to do I work on it for a while. It is that see because I know that is a new product or something very high price. I am not the new one. I am new from this year. I said that I am sure that you are not having one issue in the long term. If I am new make that product from the list for this week I have an outlier. You know that you can see that this is one of the new product. So, you see that you see that you see that the new product is the most serious deal that you see. So, what I have to say is that they call out that Ferrari Mercedes McLaren BMW Series and they usually price at a really higher price. Right. Those tracksuits you will see that is like really I have premium price that is normal to buy a suit. Right. And I remove that tracksuits as itself. And the collaboration that was happening that product pulled that was there that was meant for to my BMW collaboration I remove it. Right. Then I missed that in that category to protect my existing data. I removed that data which was having some balance. So, that I remove it to put it out there. I will tell you first in this week if it is having any kind of information or not it will be sale to the block. Right. That is not it. And non-mormon is a divorce. Non-mormon the divorce needs one. Like that is not like normal age to student not having the suit. So, my scheme minus 1 0 0 1. Then we try to transform those vegetables. Let scale. Right. If it is not there then we try to bomb it between 0 to 1. They must scale it in overs, it is saving for them to try to out it. But that is actually not required. That is only required. And when we are using errors, true trailer for the errors. We are not going to take this in the pattern of 5 servers. If we have a security key on the other hand. Then we do not receive a long option. Okay. Just keep that in mind that in session 7 you have heard of some algorithms called the VJ and Lasso. Have you heard? Have you ever heard this call the VJ or Lasso? Please yes. No. So, VJ and Lasso it is a very light. Very very desperate algorithm to come in session 7 session. That is the only thing is from multi-mode code. Right. How the race and the Lasso take that for example what happens? Right. So, taking that that can speak up. We have a model. Like we use that model of the data. So, we found certain issues that are going around the way in the model. Now to solve those issues we put in particular. That this VJ separation factor is the right data and see the way in this. Now, in the Lasso this one of the algorithms which is used to eliminate the market to get in the market. And at first we know that we have TCA really like big problem in real world. So, you are having like redundant information on the features that is not really good. Like what happens is that it should shred in the features one. Then again you are coming to one feature. And if you process the right information, you are coming to one or two. So, you have to be ready to decide how you can remove the multiguity without compromising the model part. So, for that register use. So, someone asked you that what is the. If there is any algorithm which is there to solve a new editor, which is yes. Now, we have seen the remedies. I will share in the notebook and this one. So, I am not going to add a result to your hand. I can read predictions. I can read it as a product. It is a global algorithm. It is fun. Right? What is broken and how does it add a product in space? The head also does it. Right? So, the variance of the stairs, the head is very good. So, it is a conjection. The initial point is that it is having doorways, then it is like moving straight. So, what it has and they find in space what it is doing is like having two or a different prediction. I will get more and more and more with it. So, my error is people having another gap between the head and the doorways. I will work to go with it. That is one thing. Even though the variance has been my final experience, it is something that I would like to do. But it can happen that it is only moving under the head, one single length. So, that is one question and yeah, these are the questions which violations are the earth predictions and which only it is right. Does that mean like which violations under the assumption that hurt the prediction of the earth? Low knee and knee. How does it work? How does it work? So, what it is doing is, the difference is what. Like we are trying to see what the model is showing. They will not really be very harsh to the prediction, but they will just be focusing on it. And this is it. The idea is that this person would spend in terms of the earth's weather. If the earth is bad, so you would be at present because the formula of one minus half is right. Half is right. Half is right. Half is right. Half is right. Half is right. Then they have to be higher. That means that they have to be. That means that they have to be. To the target. So, in terms of the target for this, what we are going to do is a feature. A feature which is closely related to two other features. So, if the two other features are explaining 90% of the proportion of this feature, then I can see it. Right. This feature is not having any kind of a new or unique information. The information that this feature is having, can be what it is explaining by the other features. 90% of the information can be scrapered by other features. That is why it is these. Then what does boss or boss directly see my notion? If the error rate is ordinary, it needs to survive. Then the best prediction is best in your regression line. The draw error needs to survive. Same. Just remember that I called it to move that under normal condition. Then the difference would be, leverage and influence. Excesses. Right. And influence is having like hold. Right. So, why the point which really influence or get out changes the step of the data. Then this ownership ratio will plot how to diagnose and how to fix it. What does that sound like? That was the question. High maintenance. And how to diagnose it? BIS. BIS is the one to diagnose, when BIS is high, then I will tell that my variance is high. This is going to go from one to shape. Right. And how to fix it? Law transformation. Right. Law transformation. Okay. This is one of the most difficult and difficult logic. But if the financial is there, we go with this one. It is not heterosetastic. It is heterosetastic. It is the others when there is a high maintenance. High maintenance can be captured if you have a high-dia in school. So, the high-dia in school is a matrix which helps you be maintenance. Right. How about a little bit? High-dia is experiencing that the graph is ownership. My algorithm is spread a lot on the axis. Yeah. That is it. This is the one that my see-through is the one I have transferred. It is not to be a see-through. That is the singular matrix. That is it. Like after this thing, I think this has been done. So, two things. Like on this. Just remember, the states and the answer of the real agreement. Two is to be to be a part of the points. Right. What the real deal is to be to be to be a part of the answer. Second, let us remember that the test, right, for the reality is to be gone. And for this, what is the other one? Yeah. For the individual analysis, it is double-possed. And just know the threshold. Two is fine. Zero is some probability progression. Four is strong in the probability progression. Right. Then, VIS, how is this calculated? How is this based on RSW? Why the identity RSW on feature? Same thing. As we want to do the target, we want to do the RSW for the features. Because if we do the target, people from feature is based on target, and try to do a variety of other features. Right. That is one part. VIS. If RSW is one, then it is perfect. When it's captured 100%, that's why VIS is real. That is like many high tools. We don't want it. So those criteria or those numbers just keep that up. Maybe, can we ask them to be like putting forward in the evaluation? They can ask like, there is a DIS option. Let's attack. What does that mean? You say that that's a really high VIS. You want it to. You would say that VIS is at the end. You would say that VIS, that RSW is quite a time. That means that 30% correlation for the features is due to RSW. The file size is relatively large. So in that case, my DIS is high. And my DIS is that. That is not an ideal procedure. That is one. So in this lecture, just try to get those things into the mind. The parameters, the definitions, what in statement, the outlier criteria, the influence of the friction, which is Y-axis, which is X-axis, and this is both. That is just keep it fine, rather, your prayers would be. So in the coming sessions, we are having radiate design. Now from here, the thing will start, which entry-1G features you want to improve. So yeah, that radiate design, entire logic, which my DIS is. That means of here, we are going to start. We call it, we will be by setting the drop and then by state equation, then we are going to. So any doubts or anything or isher, and this first.