you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Yes. Yes. So in a pre-ecession what did we discuss? First of all we started with creating our server for the project, right? So for that server first of all we set up our server, we set up our database, right? We did that and after this we have also covered creating different routes. So we created our first route which was registered, right? And inside the registered route by using this simple controller which is an extra user works as a controller what it controls it controls is entire request and responses for registering a user, right? So for that we also did that first of all we set up all of our validations after that we move forward and we created a user and registered user, right? So this particular route is completely and with this particular route we have created some users inside the database as well. But when we were creating users the users were created but there was one very big issue where we left off on the pre-ecession, right? So the issue is that the passwords for the users are getting stored as played as the user enters the password exactly as the person is getting stored inside the database. Okay, that's a very big issue that we have to solve. No one should get access to your password or security credentials as the user says, not getting the database items, there is no one to get access. So then what's the work that I want for this? How will the storage passcode is? Okay, so everyone is saying ashing and that is actually the next topic that we will start with password ashing. Okay, what is ashing? I want to learn a lot of my system here. What is ashing? Okay, so we got one more, one more in groups. Which is half way or it can not exactly be written, right? You are on the regular. Okay, sorry, that's a good one. So we will come to that. Okay, so let's talk about this particular word encryption, right? So as this came up, let's talk about encryption first of all. What is encryption? Okay, now completely getting your word. So basically what encryption means is that encryption, whenever you go to this ground, whatever you are using, right? You must have seen this particular statement that pops up that messages to this chat is encrypted, right? Something like that, you must have seen. So what is that particular statement means? I said imagine, you are using a, you are trying to send a message to you, you said we, you said you said different system, you said it's a different system, right? So how will you communicate with me these two systems? Right? You will use a lot of things, so it's WebRTC, but at the end, it's just nothing but network communication. When you are connecting with a person to what network, right? And now what you do, tell this particular network, whenever you say a message, let's say you want to send a simple message, right? So what is going to happen is that this particular message is not going to be sent as it is over the network, right? First of all, this entire message is encrypted. Now it is encrypted. Interrupted means it even changes to such a format so that whenever it is travelling or network, the meaning is not exactly this, right? The meaning of completing things is, maybe it's a different kind of a string, maybe it's a different kind of a sub-take of a complete list of things, right? So when you are going to send a message to a my system, you can either, when the message is being transferred between the networks, this message will be encrypted, that means it will be transformed to a different stream or a different format, right? Why it is done by this? What do I mean is that these are reciprocal messages? Any deception, right? So let's say there is this question, there is this question on this system, see, which has access to the network, right? So what you will do is that you have to make a simple message higher, right? I mean of course, a simple message, you have someone gets the point, gets the meaning, nothing, may just get out, right? But I see some, sending something very confidential, which you want to keep trying, right? I mean of course, conversation should always be between the two verses, right? No other person should be able to get that in time, message or decipher that in time, say that what you are going to say, right? So what that, what do we do is that maybe even when you are in the network, if we just send a message directly, some other system can intercept that and get the message that you are trying to send to the other person, right? That is why I wanted to do this, we interrupt to this bit, I am going to say, and then send it over the network. But then what this particular person will receive? This particular person will receive? Highly, right? That means over the network, the messages are encrypted and as soon as the system might get more, as the message receives it, it also gets deeper, right? That is the fact, encryption is encryption. So if you notice what are these two terms, the co-handed hand encryption is, if the particular message can be encrypted into some form, there are so many algorithms to encrypt the word in the message, but when the next person receives it, there will be a decryption as a very significant input, right? And the final message is high-moving, right? So this is one decryption that means it's a two-way process. If you are encrypting something one time, you can be encrypted back to it, so it's going to be, right? But now, our particular topic for today is, hashing, okay? Now hashing, all the very similar to encryption decryption, but there is a very major difference between encryption and hashing. And that difference is that a hashing string cannot be converted back into a string or a hashing string, okay? Let's say there was a message that you were trying to say, and if you are hashing this, you can have a decryption to specify it back again. That means if it is changed for once, it is changed. You can't retrieve it back. Okay? And this is the concept that we use to store passwords. Let's talk about this little one, or a minute. Let's say this is a login form, and this is the field to data password. You enter a basic password and you see one to choose one. And it's like a database. So now we enter this password. You are not going to store this password directly inside database, but first of all, we take this password out of it, and we will pass it to a hash function. Now what the hash function will do? A hash function will completely transfer this entire password into a string of a completely isolated. Let's say you have to transform this to e1.34SRT, something like this. Okay, if you notice the hash function will run, and then you have to password into something which doesn't be as big as it is currently. It's the only reason to do it. Now this is just for example, but how real hashing happens? Let's see that. So there are a lot of algorithms for hashing, and the most common one is this one. If you go to Google once and just search it, empty the file. Okay, empty file. Empty file is the most common algorithm that is used for hash. There are others, right? But this is the most common one. No, you don't necessarily need to know what happens inside empty file or hash is the string. But I'll just show you in a playground, if I have to add a password, let's say I'm going to add a password, A, B, C, 1, B, 3, 4, something like this. The same password that we used. And if I try to generate a hash for this password, you will notice through an empty file algorithm, this is the hash that we created. And completely take a string. And if I'm going to write a string, completely different. So this actually means that you see what we're doing. But it's completely different for the right. And what we do is we don't store the password. We'll be like this. We store it. This hash is like this. Okay? That's what it says. So now let's say that this is a very big string. So for example, we will take this string as a hash. Okay? Let's store the password. This is a hash. For example. Now what next? Only hashing a password is not a password. Why? So you must take that okay. We have added the password. We have the hash. We store it exactly like this. So no one will remember that. And if I want some password is... Okay. But only hashing the password is never enough. Why never comes? It cannot be written. Right? Okay. 1.5 is here. It cannot be written by... But notice this. If I generate the hash again for an empty string, 1.3.4. You notice the hash is the same. Right? So what most people do is most hacker, criminal, cyber security, and press agent. Even like that. They maintain hash as per commonly used passwords. All right? And where do they maintain it? They maintain it in a table. They maintain it in a table. Right? Let's say that we have used ABC1 and T. So what they have, they have hash. The hash is this one. For example, it's a first-rate. E1.3 for society. And every time for ABC1.2.3.4, this particular password, the same hash will be distributed. All right. So if they are able to get this particular hash out of the database, because this one is 20% data. So what they can do? They can do this. They can do this. What is that? It is giving. Find the hash and find out how to create password. And they can get access to your account. They can get access to your app. Right? And you're done. All right. So only hashing is never enough. We have to add more security layers on top of it. So that we can make our passwords more secure. Right? And what is this table called, anyone? Hashtag. Rainport table. Right? Very nice. Good example. I mean, good point. All right? So these kind of tables, where different hash stores are stored. For different passwords, these tables are called Rainport tables. Right? So if you want to read about it, you can actually read that there were so many input table adults that have happened in the past year. And they're just show rules. Maybe you're the brilliant network source. This you will learn and be there. I'm not sure. But it's just telling you what's Rainport table adults. Right? Now what are these Inuit table adults? A reading table attack is a password-cracking method that you'll especially table call Rainport table. You can track the password hash as well. Take out this. Right? Because it's a habit, right? Most people, the key password is very simple. Right? And for all the simple passwords, there's a very big table that already exists, which is a very good table. And it is there where it's in different people. Right? Who are, can you find it? They want to hack into it or they want to do something. Right? So these, for that simple hash is an audience. Look at build-up attacks if you vote in your own way. But then what to do? That it's simple hash is not an audience. Right? It's a good point. Right? So as you see, that we have this ABC1234 as a password. And for this, this was the hash that we generated. Okay. So we're not going to sort this hash directly into the database. But just for our business security, what we will add, we will add something called as a sort in the password. Now what is a sort? You know what I'm saying? Sort is also not a thing, but just a simple randomized text stream. Okay. So let's say, for example, I am taking the ES as a sort. It's not this smaller for states, it's a big state. It is a big sign. That is a sort. And now I'm going to do this. I will add this entire sort in. Which is my password. Right? So now what we just did? That the hash for ABC1234 is now not this, but now it is coming out itself. Add it to the database, add it to the security itself. Okay. And now this becomes your final hash. And this will be stored inside the database. Okay. We have something on the list. Okay. Now let us say that two people, person 1 and person 2. Both of them will, the equilibrium must be as ABC1234, ABC1234. What do you think will happen with their hashers? Will this hash be generated? Yes. But not the sort. So if the sort is not the same, then the entire hash is also different. Right? Let's say, over here, the hash can be generated. All of this is also not the same. Because sort is just not right. And every time this is VF, it is actually randomized between your data and password. Right? So now if you imagine, for both of these cases, the sort will happen completely differently. So if we use the one that keeps your password as that, at least when sort will get it in that. Or if you do the different sort will get it in that. And for same password, ABC1234, we will now have completely separate hashers. And those hashers will be stored inside the data. Okay. So this is the first step. We have so much more to discuss. But first and foremost, we will do an after this point. So what we will do? We will try to generate a hash for the password and we will add a sort. And after that, we will go into the different. Let's finish up the display process. Then we will talk more about this. Okay. Let's do this. So how do we do this? To do this, we have two famous tools that are in the market. You will be using them with Java, Golan, Spring Moon, whatever you are using. Right? You will notice that these are the proofs that I have there in me. For password security hash, right? What is that? What is B? Like, I want to read about them. So this is Bcript, right? After I also have I want to read. Okay. Yes. But the element I want to read are getting packaged. Okay. This one, right? Argon to hash in regular. Okay. They have an NPM package as well. So you can use it with NPM, right? Bcript, also, as an NPM package. So you can use Bcript as an NPM package as well. So for industry standards, mostly Bcript is used. Right? If you will see most of the projects, they are using Bcript because Argon is pretty new. Industry is still adopted to Argon. But yes, they both want the same way. Right? It is actually the same way if you are using it. Just hash is a little different in those input-y libraries. So what we use is, we use Bcript and resources with the share from Argon. So you have knowledge for all the libraries. Okay. So let's try. So first of all, what we do is we will put this out of the, and we will install. Okay. So we will start with the, we have a Bcript. And now how to hash a password? So to hash a password, first of all, you need to get the password. So whenever I use a registers, you then enter the password. And where you are saving the password, here we are saving the password. So instead of saving the password directly, you will first hash the password, then save the password. So how do we hash the password? We will go again. When you use Bcript, do. But to what, let's get the Bcript and all. Right? We do that. Hash. Simple method. We can write hash is, is it progress method? So we just have to finish this right away. And the insight is going to be bus. And we can do that. So we just have to finish this right away. And we can just finish the left. And we can just finish the left. And we can just finish this right away. And the insight is going to be bus. We pass the password that the user has, enter, which is coming from. The request for you. Time out. Okay. So you just go to this particular method and your password. And store it as an hash. And store it as an hash. That's the code. So we're going to start. Wait a minute. We just need the job. Let's try once. Okay. So we're going to, we're going to type the code over. And we have hash password just to see if the password is getting hashed. So for this, we just need to make a postman call. So you go in here with register and user and create a new request. We were using localhost. 8089. And then we have US. We have a message. Okay. The direct point. The method is post. And then the body. And let's pass the data. So it's going to be shared. Okay. Okay. Let's set this in question. So what I do is I do not save the user for now. So I'll comment this part out. I'm not saving the user. I just want to see if the password is getting hashed. So for this, we just have to open and console and check. So for this, I'm not saving the user. I'm not passing the response. You're commenting on these two fees. So up to this point, the code should work. And it should get hashed first. Let's see. So if I save the request. It doesn't hit on the cell. It hits you with 90s of the cell. Okay. So some error is covered. Why must we back? Anyone get figured out? We need that as sort. That is what issue. But still we should receive something on the table. And if it's saying it nervous, it will help. And no error is there. This one wants to know. It's connected. Not getting anything. Again it nervous. Maybe let's create the user. And let's see if in this case it happens. Okay. Can I get one? Okay. Can you see? You made a very basic mistake. Should I make it? It's two. Yes. Yes. It's two. Okay. But why must it be seen in this error? Let me just check once. Okay. So if we just comment on the hashed thing around. Let's see if the user is getting created. Yes. The user is getting created. Why should I use this method? I said it's clear. It comes up with it that you have to ask for a password. So how do we ask for it? First of all, you can use this method. And use this method that will evaluate Gen, Sold. Now, inside this one you pass. If you will hover over this you will notice that it is asking you to pass some rounds. What are these rounds? Yes. I used to understand the same thing. But not right. When I was learning hashed, I was thinking whenever we had this particular number which is 10, maybe 10 times hashed will be randomized or suffered. All the half-erying, but not exactly random. Actually, you won't be down. Okay. We'll talk about this in detail. But for now, let's understand this is actually just reading a story. So let's generate a solid first of all. It's a constant solid. And we're going to use the green dot j-bin solid with the simple awaiting thing. And then we're just adding the solid to one thing. What else are you going to generate with the pass? Now this particular password should be hashed. Let's see if this works. So now what will you, instead of logging a password? I'm going to first let's log the password and see if this is actually hashed in our password and showing us. Move the server. And let's create the user again. We'll have to create a different user. So I'll change the username and I'll change the name. Okay. Use a created. Something must have come up. And if you see, yes. And in TIRS tree has come up. What is this? This is your hashed password. Okay. You entered the password, multiply for 5, 6, 7, 9. This is the password. And for this particular password, this is the entire hash that has been created. Okay. Let's arrange it to work. Here it is. You notice this is not to be at the first. What does to be means? To be means second version of be crude. That means your password has with the second version of be crude. What is this 10? This solved trouts. This is actually 10. The 10 that you added is 10. You have 12. The number will be the same. Right? Like that. Now let me show you one more thing that is super interesting. Can you also see the solve that is getting created? Right? Let's create another user again. Okay. Another user created it. And if you see, what is this? This is your entire solve. Now you make a password. Is the same solve and find it solved? Yes. Right? If you notice this portion and this portion entirely the same. Right? That means yes. You can get what is solved. You can generate a solve and see what is solved. So that is your solve. And after that whatever this portion is, this is your hash. Okay. Now how is that hash generated? Because, again see this. I will keep both of these particular responses over here. And what I will do. I will create a different user again. And I will keep the password exactly the same. Okay. Now let's see what I will do. Is that it? Is that it? Now check. This was the solve for the first password. This is the solve for the next password. All the password I will say. Right? This is the hash for the first password. This much. This is the hash for the next password. This one. It is completely different. Okay. That means even if you have entered same passwords, your hash will never be the same. All right. And how is this gate generated? Because, solved is there. But the hash is also changing not only the solved. Solve remains the same if you know this one. This is the solved generated and the entire solved is added over here. But for the same password, the second part, which is the hash, that has also changed. How does this happen? Okay. This is where the concept of rounds comes in the room. Right? How many rounds here have added? 10 rounds. Okay. So what B-Crim does internally? Or R-L-E doesn't tell you. This is. You have added the rounds less than. So your hash, not the solved. Your password hash will both do. Due to the power n rounds of not randomization, not shasn't it? But this is actually a mathematical. Transformation. Due to the power n rounds of not randomization, not shasn't it? But this is actually a mathematical transformation. Due to the power n times. And what is n? Number of rounds. So your password has very little hash for due to the power n times. That means, how much? 10. 2,4. Yes, please. Okay. For these many times your password was transformed before it was stored inside the K-10. So before the hash was distributed. Right? Now, if you just increase the power by 1 or 2, let's say we increase it by 2. Let's say the rounds we have to destroy you. Okay. So how many times are transformation? Somewhere around this number, right? 4096. In these many transformations were done by a password before storing it to the database. And every time these transformations will generate different patterns. It's not necessary that we have added a Vc-1234 and your transform could work. And your transform could work for 4096 times. So we will be doing the same thing. Because there is one more player with this. This is something. Right? So this is completely high for these many times. And that's why, same passwords, they also have different patterns. All right? Only half were done. Right now we just have to save the password. Okay, passwords are hashed. So how do we do this? Instead of storing the password directly, we have had the password. And now we save the password as hashed. Okay. So now if I go back and I'm going to create a user, let's change the user name. Let's change the email. Okay, what changed? And now if I store the password, you will see that the password will not be stored in your plaintext format. But now you have the entire hash. Okay, this is how you register a particular user with the hashed password. Great. Finish it up with this function. We have done nothing. We have just had it in a simple function, had it in a password, and then add this, and I call it, add the password to this. Okay. Okay. Okay. This is a simple thing. Hashtag password, pretty good. And instead of storing the password directly, a place of hashed password will have to be hashed. Or a empty. Now, the real user is. Right? Now, if I want to move forward to user-resistant, the password is hashed, and it is stored inside the database, has a hash password. Now the user will come back to login as well. Right? And what the user will enter. The user will enter ABC1, please. Okay. Or their password. But if a database is not stored, hashed. Plane password hashed, comparison would always. Okay. Now we need to make sure that we find a way. So that's the password is can actually be compared. And when the right password is entered, the password should match. Right? Because right now, if I just do this, that whatever is my hash, will never be converted, can never be compared with the password that I have. Right? This will never match. So what to do then? How do you make sure that the password is already compared and they get in-pause, they get in-matched? Okay. So now just imagine this. What is the hash? The hash is distance. Whatever can be the hash. Okay. Now what you have started with this? A software. Right? So let's also add a software. Okay. This is the software. For example, now when the user enters the password, this is the password. Right? So what Vikram does? This is the reason why that data is known inside your database, which is what you do and rounds 10 or 12. What Vikram will do? And the salt is also stored inside the database, right? So what Vikram will do? Vikram will do the same transformation on the user's internal password. So what Vikram does? This is what? This is stored inside the database. Okay? Vikram will go inside the database and get out the salt. Get out numbers, rounds. Get out the version. Okay. And whatever the password, the user has entered. Right? It will add these things with the user's password. Right? What do you do? Do you rounds with the salt? I say number of transactions. Right? So where is that particular password in the next language? To the same. Right? And then we finally have this particular hash. And then this hash is, it will be matched. And as soon as the matching is successful, you know better? All right. Let's start with the next one. All right. So let's try to do this once. We'll go back. And as we have stored the hash password, we'll now start writing a login browser. Let's do this. Let's just copy this and then we'll maybe start with the hash. Okay. Logging in. What do you do first? Logging form will get. We're logging only into this because we expect this is already registered. So we're only going to the email or password or maybe the user name or password. Right? So what we have is again use drag action. And inside this first file, we'll get out. The user name. Or maybe using email. Use email and use. Okay. Okay. It's not a question. What next? Add a simple notification for email check. So this email is not found. That means the user does not exist. So we say not found which is a word for. At this address statement. Right? The state of that question is for for user not found. And we'll just go over here and add message. User not found. Please. And then this type of. Or make a list. If the email is found, then we move forward. And what do we do? We do our second step which is. Compare password. Okay. So to compare password, we'll again need a variable. Password check. Right? And as I said, who does all of this? We do. We can easily compare it. Right? And this particular method does the same job. So this needs two things. First of all, what the password is that has come out from the user. So the password is coming out from the user is this one. And then it also needs to retrieve the password from the database. So how do we retrieve the password from the database? First of all, we'll have to find the user. So before actually passing the password, let's find the user. Because email has been found. So for that email, let's find the user. So what we do, calls to user is what model? Usually what model does find one? Passing. Let me be sure I've done this first. And this should be, you find this should be, anything. And yes, we are forgetting one thing. I'll wait. Okay. So now we have this variable. That's only email. And if I use it, the user will come. Maybe. He's not found. He's not found. And if everything is working fine, then he will forward. And we compare the password that the user will return. And we use it on. Because you found the user. So it's an user, there would be email with the name. All this gets, so please, say, the password. Right. And what this particular competitor does, the same thing. Right. It goes inside. Right. It goes inside the database. Yes, right. So it goes inside. So it goes inside. And it has a password matches. So it returns a Boolean. If the password matches, true, if not, false. Okay. So this password check will return a Boolean. Based on it, the password has a tag. Or. You can see the result. Okay. Great. Now, if the password has matched, you move forward. But if password check has three, then you again send back a response with 400 by the request. And then if everything is working fine, you know what to do. Right. Simply send a response of success with the basic user. And then if everything is going fine, you will see the result. Let's compare this, I mean let's just review this entire login node. User comes up and as the email in the password, first we check with the email if the user exists, if the user doesn't exist, we say user not found, please register. Then if the user exists, we check for the password. If the password check fails, we say wrong password, but both of these things are true and found in the database, we log it, please, please, please, let's test this. So to test this, what we'll have to do, we'll have to go back to user routes and as we have created a register route, similarly now we need a login and the controller will be logged in using this one. Let's test. All right, let's move forward and this user, if you notice, has already. Let's just do it. So for login, you only need the email and password, we'll only need the user email and we'll move this. I'll see the endpoint from register route, login and we'll be a post-it. We'll just move this one. Let's see this works and if the password matches and the user comes in, send, but you say there's the password hashes, they have matched. If I change the password, will this end at the same time? Or not. And that means we should receive a error message or a validation message that the password is wrong. Okay, let's still see if user will know. Why is that? Did something go wrong? Let's test. We have users, we have login, password and change the password, remain, send. Press say, press. And there is at least this. You'll have an address. Use the login. Let's check what is the password. Promise finding. That means before what? Small issues. You'll always have this. That is why it's always better whenever you're creating a endpoint, test it. You'll actually find what small mistakes are done. Now I think the validation should be passed. That's it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. See, not I'm logging into the relationship. Okay. We've passed the convention. And we are set with that first two routes registered and log. I've pushed the code. We'll wait here for four to five minutes. After that, let's move on to the next part of the list. Okay. I'll give you what it is. But just make sure that in this five minutes you have your registered and log in routes set with password hashing and password comparison. Okay. Which brings me to the last point. Which is, if the routes are dead, that means your entire system will be driven. We'll also run through the network 10 transformations on your 8th password. Okay. Now imagine, if someone even has password from the network, how many transformations they will have to manually run to reach to your final hatch. Again, it will do the power up. Then that makes password cracking more and more tough. All right. Because every time you transform a hatch, there's a cost involved. Right. The algorithms are not running for free. They're using different systems. They're using money. All right. And that is why the industry now that you will see is that the rounds are kept as not dead, 12. So that even if someone is trying to crack your hatch, they will at least have to run 4,096 transformations on your hatch and after that as well, it's not confirmed that they will reach your final hatch. Okay. So that is why hashing is the most secure way of storing passwords. There is another reason. Right. So when you go to node JS, yes, there are so many things. When you go to node JS, you actually get this crypto model just telling you for your knowledge. Right. So this is, are you done with cryptography in your network's courses now? Okay. Then I'm not going to more details. But yes, there is a concept in software engineering which goes by the cryptography. Cryptography is again the same thing, right. Incripts, you'll be cruising hatching. Everything comes under cryptography. Cryptography algorithms are only used to do all these things. So if you do cryptography, if node JS, we have this package, crypto. All right. Which generally uses this algorithm, which goes by an SNK. Right. And the only thing about SHA is you cannot transform a taking advantage of it. That is why this is not a secure way for storing passwords. Because our hatches, we have transformed it for around due to the power of main times. We have 4,096 types of transformations with that, which is making our transformation more difficult to crack. But with SHA, that's not the thing, right. In SHA transformations are usually very less. That is why this particular way is not used. Also this is also hatching if you see. One way mathematical function. You also hatch. What is the best way to store passwords? What is the best way to store passwords? These are some questions that are as it interviews. Just make sure you are okay with this. I will also add this in our notes. All the questions that you can be as not hatching cryptography, cryptographic encryption. Okay. Yes. We will be able to do two minutes. Then let's move forward. Sorry. A little out. The script is not shared. So, did you do the tactic without speech in? Theouts are prayers for searching on a plate. They are prayers for you to obtain. Sorry. A little out. The script is not shared. So, did you do the magic without speech here? Yes? Yes? Yes? Yes? Was people in the chair? Yes. But you were able to see this screen? No, they were doing it. Yes. So, it's... As recording I had other batches recording. They are doing the same things. Yes? We are going to raise your hand and we will have to hold it. We are not sad but it is a camera. Can you see this? Anyway. I am going to raise your hand and we will have to hold it. Yes? Yes. Yes? Yes. Yes? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Sir, everyone has written the login and register controllers with all the things that we did. Right? Okay. Now let's move forward with a very important topic that we are going to cover today. Ease an every project of you that you will create with authentication. Should have this. Ease an every interview back in Rose. Definitely we will be asked about this, right? So, make sure you pay utmost attention in this topic that we are going to discover. Okay. This session man is authentication. All right? Okay. Let's discuss this. What to be mean by this first follow? You have a well open. You hit your credentials and you are not taken. Okay. Now you come back to this application. What do you see? Yes. You are still not taken. Right? You went off for a while. Maybe one day, two days, you were inactive. Okay. So you have logged in for once, but your session is ongoing. Right? That means whenever you are coming back, something is happening which is still leaking you stay. Logging. It's not asking you again for your login information. You may hear password from you. You have entered it for once and you still logged in. Happens on your web app session and happens on your mobile app session. This you may have seen. This happens now and after you understand. Okay. Anyone knows how this happens? Yes? The process is docs implemented for soon and it's going on your Great explanation. Alright yes, very nice explanation. There you are right. Good one. Alright, so yes, now I move forward with session minus authentication and we see how this is done. So as I said that there are some tokens, right? Now what are these tokens? First of all we will talk about tokens. Okay, let's take a real life example. Alright, so what do you do? Right, just before 50 years ago, I was going to talk about the token. Okay, so what do you do? Right, just before 50 years ago, we will get back, right? So you must have taken the price. Right? So what happens in a flight? Let's talk about the whole process of how it will travel in a flight. First of all you will get a date. Right? You take this date and when you go to the airport, when you go to the airport, with only a ticket you cannot go to a flight. First of all you will have to do one process which is chain. You go into a chain and count as chain. Right? What is this particular step? Chain. After chain, you get this document which is called as the Bolly Pass. Right? Now what is this Bolly Pass? This is actually your identity inside the airport. Right? This is your identity inside the airport. This is the token. By which you can access your security checks. This is the token by which you can access your flights. This is the token by which you can access your boarding case. Whatever. Right? So what is this? This is acting as a token. For the time your flight has not taken off. Right? That means for that particular time you have this token which is acting as your identity. And you can access each and every part of the airport with this. I have a boarding pass. I am allowed to do this. Okay. Similarly in your websites, in your mobile apps, whenever you have logged in, that means you go to that trading process, a similar kind of token is generated and stored inside your problems. It stored inside your problems. That if that particular token is there, you are able to access it website and move around in your mobile apps. Because that token is present. Right? So, will this boarding pass stay a nice for your lifetime? Right? No. For the time your flight has taken off. Right? Till that time you have your boarding pass and that's valid. Similarly the token, they also have a validity and we can decide what will be that valid. Okay? So first of all, let's see that how did you create this particular token? So, let this particular token be used upon the sample as JLU. JLU is stands for JLU, where tokens. Okay. This one. Now they have the, this particular token has a small story. A lot of things will discuss about JLU. They are not just tokens. It's so much more. Okay. So first of all, if you have any tokens, the first website that you have to go to is JLU and VM. And this is the package that we use to generate R, JLU, you know this. Okay? So first of all, we install this package. So let's go in here and install this. So, we go to this side and install it. Now, we will do JLU, we install it. Now, the next step is, we need to generate this token. How do we generate this token? And when do we generate this token? First of all. Okay? So if you take a real life example, the old time, the body machine is generated very well, shaking. Okay? That means the token should be generated when you have registered or locked. Okay? So that is now with both of our routes over here. With register and login, we have to make sure that we are generating the token for the user. Right? So where are these logic? The logic is inside the controllers. So first of all, let's talk about the registration around over here and we'll generate a token. So when the user is getting added, user is getting added over here. So unless the new user is created, we are not only saving the user with the name, user name, name, name, or password, we will also make sure that we generate a token for user. Right? Which token? I'll read a new key. Totally. Okay? Generally, we see this particular token built down as access token. Yes? Okay. These names are accessed. Okay? Now, let's write it in the latest access. So how do we generate this token? Which is in the package that we just installed here. Right? And what I do is I'll not add the function over here to the entire logic. We create a separate function, good practices. Right? So over here, we'll go inside the server, we'll create a new directory and I'll call this directory as units. I'll keep all my utility functions over here. Okay? And the first function that I'll create over here is generating. Okay. All right? Yes. Okay. Okay. Perfect. Let's do this. So over here, how do we generate a token? Do we generate a token? We'll be equal. We'll get a new icon. We'll try to start. And then, so. I'll just name it, you can name it entirely as a logic. This is just names, right? Up to this point, I'll show you now. These are just names. This is the package. All right? So how do we use the WT? Now, again, let's go back to this here, putting something. Okay. So, your coding path will be generated for the flight that you have booked. Right? Maybe you're going through an integral error, right? So you'll have an integral code. If you're going through an error, yeah? Yeah, I'll have an error. What are these things? Right? What maybe? Let's imagine that you are at a parking lot. Right? And you're going to a parking lot, you'll park your vehicle, and you get a receipt. In that receipt, you will always notice that to identify that parking lot, this stamp that particular receipt. Or maybe you have some signature role there, which are truly based on that, okay? This particular receipt is from this parking lot. So when you come back, they will identify. That is, this is the receipt and according to this receipt, let the person take the vehicle up. Right? Like that. So that means even your tokens, they need to be signed. That means if I'm creating a website, I should sign these tokens that, okay, yes, this token is from my website. Okay? So for this, what do we do is, we have to create a signature role. We have to create a secret stamp of us from our website. And that particular thing is created as a JWD, secret view. Okay? And as of course, the name is same secret. So we have to keep it inside our e-mails. We don't expose our e-mails secrets. So I'm playing my GWD, secret view here. And this is completely up to you. You all will say, you are secret. Okay? So any string you can keep for this. But remember, if you have created it for once and your application is in production, don't say this. Okay? The stamp is this only once. All right? So let me just create a social scene. All right? Let's say this is my JWD secret. By this I'm going to identify my users. All right? Now with this particular secret, I'll create a token. Okay? So we'll move on to generate token. And from here, we get this particular method. Or maybe we need to create a function first. Gen, token. I need to read this out. All right? Inside this we'll use JWD, not a method, but a sign. This is that method. So you can sign your token with this secret. Okay? But then also, one more thing. I mean, what do we need to create the token? For our users, right? And there will be a lot of users in your application. All right? So how do you identify the user? Using the user, right? So if you see, go to Postman and check. Whenever we're creating a user, right? Can I trace back? I'll show you in the database. Whenever you're creating a user, you see MongoDB is automatically giving you one ID. So whenever user gets created, user gets created with an ID. Okay? So what we'll do is, whenever the user registers, can I create a ID like this? Okay? The same thing I'll try to get. I just create it. Right? Second, okay. All right? So what we just have to do is, we have to go to generate token. At the same time, you have to accept users ID. No. For this user ID, sign the token with that jwd. Sign the token with that jwd. See? That's it. Right? If it is a ID, if I do see it, and I sign a method with data, token for the user with the ID. Job done. Right? Your token is generated. And with this, you can also set up one more property which you are talking about and explain that for how many days of your how many time, how much time the token should be valid. Okay? So, you can set the time in our minutes, days, months, right? Whatever you want. I'll set it for days. 20 days. Function 20. Now what do we need to do? Generate a token, see what it can. And you can return. All right? And yes, as we need to use this function with our register and controller, we just export it. So, what do we need to do? We need to use our gen token method which is created by say, you need to use our gen token method which is created by say, you need to use it on this work. And for this reason, create the token and what you ever use it on shows that you will invest. You are not safe to token anywhere. But, till this point, we are just checking with the token which is created. And let's talk. Okay? So, what is our open up terminal? And we see if with registration, we also get a token. Let's do this. Right? So, for this, I'll again have to register and use a password email already there. What is this needed? I'll just use a name. And this is your register for the random and name. Change the email password. Okay? And the route should change to. Let's post a user and see if for this user, we get a token. Send. Use it registered. Okay? And on the console, now you see we have an entire token generated. The token starts from e via a tie per. We otherwise the password will be ignored. We will ignore the icon and remove this entire token. This was just to show you how the sold and hashed password come out. But only for this one, this one. What is this? This is only our JWT token. Right? We just got generated. Right? What's the significance of this one? How do we make sure that these are users token? This doesn't have a user ID. This isn't having the email. Nothing is inside. This is an item stream. How do we make sure that this is actually for our users? This is the user ID. This means that the user ID will be a key client. This is a token. What is this? I'm not getting worried. This is the second part of the user ID. I've been informed that you are a token streamer. So, basically, the user ID can be created. It is like the money you can use for the ID. Okay. Yes, very nice. Actually, you see this is not an item stream. Inside this particular stream, in some way, your user details are embedded. Not only your user details, you have also added, expired. And another thing, as soon as the user registers, the time starts from there. As I have a visitor right now, what's it time? 330. 330. And from this particular time, how many days I have to count? Exactly, 30 days. So, what I need, I need my initial time, and the logo is embedded. I need the spying. And I need the user details. And all of these three details are in some way embedded in this random, not random. But actually, JL will be the same. Let me prove this to you. So, if you ever want to try out that if this particular JLWT secret or sorry, JLWT token is actually allowed to go to this particular website, which will write an name JLWT. Okay. And here, in this particular list, remove this token, which was the default token, and add your token. Okay. As soon as you have added this, you see, your entire token now is decrypted back. Because you are already with IIT, IIT stands for E-seated ads, and it expires something. Check this. The token was created around September 30, where it is, 332 PI. Initial time, expiring from 10 days. Okay. 30 September is the expiring. Today's third. So, in the E-seated ad should be third. Yes. Third September, 30 September. And what is this? This is the user ID. You can also check this. At the end we have 4C. Go to momentarily, check. Let's refresh. At the end we have 4C. This is the ID. So, the entire user detail is some, in some way, I will also tell you how that gets decrypted inside. But I can just understand that that particular JLWT has all the user information. The ID, the initial, initialization of the JLWT and expiring it. And these three days are present. So, this will be what you identify. Whenever you go inside an application, this entire user data, this form of token is stored where he's at a browser. And that data is taken out, where server checks. That for this token, let's first get out the ID. So, the ID will get out this. This one. It will search inside. The data is that which is or exist with this ID. It contains times that it is. And then you are still logged. And if the token verification fails, logged out here into loggedness. That is the word process. But right now, that process we have not included. So, the token is generated. Next part is, we need to store this token inside the browser. So, that whenever you come back to your web app, the token can be identified. The token can be put down from the browser and said for identification. How do we store something inside the browser? Okay, where next? So, that means, previous time stress, we are not going to waste it. So, yes, we have. Logos storage. Where is log? All right. We have local storage. But is the local storage a security? The question is, is local storage security? Is it a security? Is it a security? Open Google, GPD, GMI, GLAW, whatever you use. And the search about it is that is logos storage a safe option in the store. Right? The answer is a direct? No. Storing was integration tokens in local stores is not completely safe because any JavaScript running on your page can be viewed. The local storage in your browser is a open storage. Anyone can be read. The tokens can be transferred. The tokens can be retrieved from your local storage. And that makes it very, very easy to go. Very good storage. There is very little storage in your store. If not, it is better. Let's do this here. Okay. Now you will find out that the answer is the top option that comes up is HTTP only cookies. Now what are X to give you a little piece? Top answer. So let's discuss a little bit about cookies right now. What are cookies in your? These cookies? Right. We are talking about browser rules. Now what are cookies? Cookies are nothing but again a storage space in your browser. But with cookies, we can set a lot of rules. We will see what are these rules and how they are making your data secure. Okay. But first of all, we are talking about cookies or nothing. But just a storage space in your browser where you can store small text files. Nothing else. You just store small text files. Any kind of data you can store inside cookies. Whenever you go to Amazon, whenever you go to any shopping application, or whenever you go to any particular application, you can search for something. Let's say I want to buy some shoes and go to search for shoes. I have five minutes and I have been shown ads about shoes. Right. How is that happening? Because your search data is getting stored inside your cookies. And from there different platforms are identifying that, okay, this particular person is looking for shoes. So let's show them shoes. Okay. That's how it happens. Right. Because that particular data is stored inside cookies. So these kind of data, then similar kind of data can be stored inside cookies. Now, we can decide what cookies we are okay to be to have exposed. What cookies we don't want to expose. There are both the things that you can do with cookies. So let's see how to set cookies. So to set this token inside of cookies, we use response. Okay. Nice. Right. You can name that by what? You can name your one-year token to exist. I'm just naming this token. And for this token to be the value, this token will be very much equivalent. Anything something like that. All right. So I'm just, as a response, I'm also sending a token, which is getting stored inside. Right, cookie. All right. Now, where to access the cookie? You're going to write. Now, you don't have a client. Okay. So it won't be stored inside the browser. Where it will be stored? If you see, when you go to Postman, you also get a second option, which you may have ignored. When says cookies, your cookies will come up at this point. Let's see if this happens. So now what I do is, register a new user. Email the changing email. Let's send them user name. Okay. Let's register a new user. And now you will see a cookie will be generated. All right. If you see cookies, now have one. Let's see. And your token is now stored inside. You're cookie. Right. If you see, this is how the structure of cookie looks like. That's the input table of text. Right. When some rules. All right. Now what are these rules? First of all, this is the name. Okay. The name that we just kept. This is the name token. For value token value. So the value came up. What is this? This is your entire. You have to look at. After that, domain is right now local. Because we have testing this locally. Path is home. Session. Expired session. We have set the session for today. Now these two fields are important. Stk people only and secure. The most important rules for storing. What's the reason for these two rules? Stk people are getting secure. First is the algorithm. What do you understand by strip of you? Stk people. Stk people. Stk people. Let's talk about this. What is this? Tp. Protocol is part of communicating with different systems. Over the network. So if you see that we have a client team. We have a server. So the protocol to communicate between the client and the server is ht. All right. Now, when we set this particular rule for cookies to 2, 2, then what happens is that your cookies will only be sent with your responses and can only be received with your requests. The browser will not store these as it is inside the web. There will only be transferred over request and response. Nothing in between. That is what we are going to do. We are also going to set the rule as true. Right now, this. For example, if I read a device, but it can change the rule. So how to change the rule? So we change the rule. We have to go over here and we will create it. And in mom check, which was when I wrote the options, it can keep it anything else as well. But generally, it can keep it as for the options. And here, we use HTTP only. Like this. And we send the rule. All right. And how to be sent this rule when we save the cookie? As a third parameter. So, as a third parameter, we set our cookie options. So now, we will be added to this rule cycle. True. All right. Let's try and create this. Change the email. Change. Change the user. Okay. Now, if you see the rule has been sent to. Take five minutes. The interval takes to be your memory. What does this mean? I'm going to use the text. The text is just two lines. That when HTTP only is set to true, that basically is a security flag, which will just do this, that any kind of client scripts, like if you are trying to ingest any kind of JavaScript, if you are trying to get some code with JavaScript, and trying to read the cookies, right? Every time with HTTP only is set to true, no other script can read your cookie. You know, read that? cannot access that. First security flag. All right. So, what do we do? When do we have a next lab session? Tomorrow? Okay. So, in tomorrow's lab session, I'll show you what HTTP only has to do with JavaScript. So, what we do is, when do we have a next lab session? Tomorrow? Okay. So, in tomorrow's lab session, we have a next lab session, which is what HTTP only actually means with an actual demo. Okay. So, what demo we are going to do? We are going to demo this attack. This is an excesses. We'll see what excesses attack is. How your cookies can be stolen, and when you write HTTP only to true, how the cookie becomes secure. Okay. In tomorrow's lab session. But now you can note this down. That there is an attack that can happen, which is excesses. If our cookies are not secure, yes, these are your results. Then again, next thing. Go and post it. Let's go on this flag. What is this? Security will be harder, you know. But why do we have this rule like secure set to first? And you can also set this rule. This can also be set to true. So, if HTTP only is stopping the cookies from getting exposed to any other jar stream, what is the signal doing? Yes. Right. Okay. So not only excesses attacks, but we have another kind of attack, which are known as CSRF attacks. And these attacks are generally called as cross site request for jim. Okay. Now again, what are these attacks in the lounge session? We will do a full demo of excess attack. And a CSRF, like I will get a website where I will give you access to attack on that website. You will see you can attack and you can actually get my credentials. So we will stop both of these attacks in the next lounge rule. All right. But for now, keep it to secure. And you will notice that your cookies will be stored securely. They will be stored here, security and what do you do this cookie with? That will cover in the next session. Okay. So for today, what's your task? Your task is to finish and it's still log in if you have not. Your task is to generate a code. Your registered user, store it inside cookie. Okay. And not only for register, when you will log in, then also what do you need? You need to generate a token. Right. So the same thing you have to perform for log in. Right. Exactly the same thing. But over here, just not the new user. But log in user is already inevitable. Right. So but this is the generated code and same thing. This much finished at least before the next class. So we have class in lab, both tomorrow, right? Great. So what we'll do in the class? In the class, we'll move forward with the authentication middle-way. Where we will add cookie checks. Right. And in the lab, we'll do a quick demo of the attacks. And then we'll move forward with the lab session. Lab sessions are going to change. Did I perform this in the class? Yes. Lab sessions are going to change from tomorrow. You are going to get lab assignments, which will be a complete problem statement, which I may have shared already. Right. So this is the problem. These are the set of problem statements that we're going to solve. Right now, we have only created two. Has only two labs have happened for the previous class. Right. These ones. So what we're actually going to do is, we are going to create an entire e-commerce platform. As a training social media platform, on-and-last, you'll get an e-commerce platform on your lab progressively. And then you have a sub-media. Final term project as well. So by the end of the course, I'm expecting everyone should have at least three projects in their provide. Okay. We'll step. All right. So if you want, you can actually start with this before the lab session. Because the attendance depends on these lab assignments. If you're able to finish these lab assignments and get it reviewed by your TA, then only you get your attendance and informing again, these lab assignments, they're also created. So 20% of your grade for entire course will come up from these lab assignments. Okay. Make sure to finish them. Think them seriously. Okay. We'll start with the attendance. Okay. Today's second or third. We don't have a column for third. Okay. What classes this? Fifth, sixth. Where four classes one and two. Where's sixth class? See you're at four classes. Then we have one class two. We'll be yesterday. Then we have another class two. We have six classes. Okay. Yes. Please start. During this annual Hajjah, Arab, Arab, Aztec Mishra, Abhinav Agarwar, Abhinav Mithan, Abhinav Hati, Abhishek Mithalir Stain, Abhuri Mendi, Abhuri Mendi. And then you have to read Arabic. Hati Shukla, Hati Tutsan, Akansha, Akshansra, Akshansra, and Abhinav. Amartya, Amitayanshu, Amitsabhu, Amok, Amuntimish Rao, Amokinesha Rao. Amrit, Ananesha Rao, Anantaraman, Anantaraman, Aniket, Ankit, Anmol, Anav Harvach, Anshul, Anantarish, Anupra, Anam Jain, Arif, Arif Al-Nafseh, Arpanam, Arif Al-Misra, Arif Al-Nafseh. Deepak Vishwaha, Rewanchamital, Dev, Dehya, Devit, Saisamit, Akansha, Taman, Anasad, Gaurav, Gautam, Arif Al-Nafseh, Gautam, Anjala, Arifik, Arif Al-Nafseh, Khashir, Khashir Tendam, Khashir Tendam, Khashir Tad-Sanani, Khashir Timaichi, Khashir Timaichi, Khashir Tisha, Khashir Tisha Sahil, Khashir Tisha Sahil, Jain, Dehya, Su, Dehya, Su Jain, Venishikam, Venishikam, Khashir Tisha, Thavashir, Khapa, Krishna, Krishna, Kulal, Kushri Karmadeva, Lakshmi, Lalit, Lakshmi, Laptik, Kaur, Malay, Malay, Manasagni, Manas Karat, Manas Kani Gar, Manas Kani Gar. Manasagni, Manasana, Manri, Manamasham, Manamasham. Krishna, Kani, Manamasham, Manamasham, Manamasham, Manamasham, Manamasham. Michael Yi, Ra too Ron, Madam Mosadi, Man bodies, Villages, Moosh. What do you think is right. Let us watch the video now. 귀 minds, Te Track, Hottori, Mykul, Nikun. Nithyan Kumar, Nithyan Kumar, Nithyan Singh, Nithyan Singh, Phallakavya Vand, Phad Phanna Ganesh, Banchal, Kati, Rianj, Vakavya Vand, Raji, Sanjid Rajkut, Sanjid Kumar, Rannajoy Raji, Rishesh, Jaini, Sipati, Rizad, Hombat, Rheachasam, Rheachasam, Rheachasam, Rheachasam, Rheachasam Ritupindap, Ritsle, Sagnik, Sagnik, Sai Vaskar, Sai Charan, Sekar, Sadi Rath, Samrithi, Sankriti, Sashar, Sashar Sattamsi, Sagarilipur, Sikh Hombat, Sashar, Sankhya, Sivanghi, Sivanghi, Sivanghi, Sivanghi, Sivrach, Sivrach Singh Srishti, Siyapan, Siyans, Chaudhary, Siyanshade, Siddhant, Siddhantra Makant, Smarri, Savanri, Savanhi, Savanri Savanri, Savanri, Savanri, Sujana, Suvian, Sujan, Sujjit, Sivrach, Sviri, Svani, Tahir, Tejas, Srinakul, Sushal, Radev, Wixgeltishya, Wixgeltishya comfortable, Yes, Vandana. Yes, Yadav. Dinesh Kumar. Ashita Ragi. Yes, Vandana. You, Patel. It's a zero and five. Yes, it's six, nine, six. Six. Nine, six. Yes, these are the previous ones. No, it's a class which is this one. A Kalvali class. Because those are the three of them. Yes, these are the four. So, that we first access. We first. We first. Seven. Seven. Six. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. And the only person. It 40. Each person is once they are drinking計. And this person is nine. Земra will come through. So, the number 24 skinny levy at 106, 116, 8, 21 skinny levy. 116 here. 111. 1016 man. 117. 21st. Very first. 37 to 89. Calorie. Calorie hospital. So, I'll let you guys. 100. 0, 113. 122. So, 21st. No, 21st. You see? 1. The problem of 21st. So, 21st. So, at the end of the year, we will be able to check the first 19-20. We will be able to check the first 19-20. So, 50-9 West are going to be coming, but we are not going to be able to see the end. Starting with you two plus, the second one is the first one and the second one is the first one. What assignments? Level assignments. We will be able to see which one will be there. Level and you two. Remember? You said the hint.