Is this screen visible? Okay, so as of now we have seen the networking layer, we have seen how the internet work, right? What is the meaning of the IP address that you get inside a network? So today what we are going to do is we are going to dive deeper into the internet and IP address function. But before that let's have a quick revision of the internet layers so that we can put all of this together. Okay, and we will keep doing this in almost every class we will keep going back to the 7 or 5 layers of internet and we will keep connecting all the new concepts that we are learning with those layers that we have. Okay, so what are the layers of networking? What is the first layer or we should say the seventh layer? We have the application layer. And this is not just a single layer, we should say this is the application layer plus the presentation layer and the session layer. Then what is the next layer? Then we have the transport layer. After this, after transport we will be having the network layer. And after network, after network we are going to have the data link and finally the physical layer. Now in the application layer we have the actual data. It can be adjacent as we discussed in the other class image video. Any type of data that has to be transferred specifically if you are calling an API or if you are opening a web page. Then it is going to be a simple HTTP request. So it may have certain JSON which may have the request parameter in it but then a protocol which is working on the application layer which is facilitating that communication with the server. For example, an HTTP protocol or an HTTPS protocol or a file transfer protocol, secure file transfer protocol or a DNS protocol. So whatever protocol you are using, that protocol is going to add its own metadata, its own header. That header may contain the type of request as per that protocol. For example, HTTP has get request, pull request, post request. It may add what is the size of the request parameter. And in the presentation and in the session layer there are few more things which may be added. So presentation layer may add encryption over the data that you are using or it may encode the data. So here at this point of time you have some data but over and above this data you have added the HTTP header. So whatever protocol you are using at the application layer, the header of that protocol. Which is going to increase the size of this overall data. Initially you might only be having one single JSON object but now since you have added much more detail, the overall size of the data has increased. So let it goes to the transport layer. What happens in the transport layer? IP address? IP address or something else? TCP. TCP and UDP are the protocols which are going to act in this layer. So here in the application layer, the protocols that are acting are HTTP, HTTPs, FTP and so on. In transport layer we have two protocols either TCP or UDP. So now what is going to happen is we are going to add more information over it but before we add more information, we are going to break it down into smaller segments. So now this larger packet that we had is going to broken down into smaller packets and these packets then over every single packet. We are going to add another layer of information. So you can again see that the overall size of the data is going to further increase. Because every single packet is not going to be some part of this original packet but it is going to have a layer of extra information over it. What exactly is this extra information that we are adding over this data? We are adding the port number, port of the service where we want this data to reach. For example, if it is HTTP then the standard port for HTTP is AP. If it is HTTPs, your system already knows that the port number has to be port. What is the port number for HTTPs? It is for HTTP for HTTPs, you have a different port number. So we are adding the port number for the service. These are standard ports which are which your system already knows. So here the port number of the destination as well as the sources. Port number of the destination is the type of service where you want this packet to reach. It could be HTTP, it could be HTTP and mostly your system would already be aware of that port number. But what is going to be the port number of the source? Because source is your own computer. So what do you think is going to be the port number of your source? Port number corresponds to a specific service. So that when the data reaches your machine, it knows where exactly has it to be displayed in your machine. There might be multiple different applications running in your machine. There might be Slack, there might be WhatsApp, there might be a Firefox browser, there might be a Chrome browser. There could be hundreds of types inside that Chrome browser. So how exactly your system knows that this data that we have received from let's say an Amazon server has to be displayed in this specific application? OS manages? Correct. OS is going to manage the TCP connections. But how does it know what is the port number of which application? Each packet is going to have a header. So let's take a step back. Let's see, this is what is happening. So you have to send a request to a remote server. Now this packet that you want to send, this is going to have port number of the destination. And this should also have port number of source. Now the question is how does your system know what is the port number of these? So does the operating system assigns a fixed port number to all the applications which are running in your system? Then because if that is not the case, then the response comes back from here. How does your system know? How does the operating system know that this response has to be displayed in this application? In application, how does your system know? How does it find any specific type of feedback? Correct. Absolutely. So we do not have a fixed port number for every application. Every single time whenever you are raising a request, there will be a random port number which will be assigned as the source port. In fact, if you are opening the same website but if it is in a different type, the two types are going to get different port numbers. So that when the data comes back, your system knows exactly where this data has to be displayed. Does that make sense? So port number of destination, port number of source along with segmentation of the entire data. So now we can see that the size has further increased. And there has to be an indexing also so that when the data reaches, then it can be arranged and the full data can be generated again. Okay, then what happens in the next layer? What is the new information that we are going to add in the next layer? Now we need to add the location where these packets are to be sent. How do we know the location using the IP address? So now we are going to send over these packets. We are going to add another layer of information which is going to be the IP address of the source and destination port. So now you can see that the size of the packet has further increased because now we have more information that has to be stored in these packets. Initially only data, then you also have the HTTP header, then you also add the port number, source and destination port, then you add the IP address, source and destination port. In each and every packet you are going to add the IP address of both the source as well as destination. So we don't do that the reason for that is so again as I mentioned earlier so every question is that in order to for this packet to reach the destination we need both the IP address and the port. Why are we doing it in two different steps? Why don't we directly add IP address as well as the port at the same time? The reason for that is this is a logical breakdown. This is not exactly how it happens. It is possible that in some systems you are adding both the information together. It's not that we are layering physical wrappers over the object. So we are simply adding another information whether we are being added together or not does not make sense because eventually every packet is going to have the port and every packet is going to have the IP address. And if anyone wants to have a visibility over the port they can have it. This is let they need to read this packet. This is a design decision. Does that make sense to everyone? Every single packet is going to have IP and port. Now why do we need this logical breakdown? We need this logical breakdown because the physical devices that we are using different devices are going to understand different things. So router only understands IP address. Router doesn't understand port. Router doesn't understand anything related to the application. In the end whether it's going to let's say go to some search service of Amazon or whether it goes to the smart support service of Amazon. The router does not have any visibility of that. Router only knows that I have to send this packet to this particular system which is connected to the internet. So now the size has further increased. In the end we reach the data link layer. What do we have in data link layer? Data link layer is the layer which connects your system to your router. So that is going to be done by either a protocol called the Ethernet or Wi-Fi. That is how you are connected to your router or your own internet. And then that router is going to take you out to the outside internet. So now there is a fixed size which is there is a prescribed size. And if these packets go beyond that size then they have to be refragmented. Because every single network layer may not be having the same amount of bandwidth. Bundit means what is the maximum amount of data that they can transfer. So it is possible that you have let's say your internet where let's say multiple laptops are connected. And you have a router and this router connects you to the outer internet. And that again is going to happen through a sequence of routers. Now, once your packets start from here. So everything till this point is going to happen in your boost. So your operating system is going to take care of adding the IP address, adding the port number, and breaking it down as per the bandwidth of this layer. Once these packets they reach here then now the duty of the router is to ensure that this packet can be transferred to the next router to the next device using the MAC address. So that is our data link layer is also going to need the MAC address. MAC address of the next device where these packets have to be transferred. So now it is possible that the bandwidth of these two are different. So every link is going to have what is the maximum size of packet that can be transferred over the same. If the size of these packets are greater than what is the maximum that can be transferred through that specific link, then your router will have to do some extra work. It will have to fragment it out into smaller packets. For example, if let's say the size of the maximum packet size which can be carried over this link is 1500 bytes. And the packets that we have created they are of let's say 4500 bytes. Which means that this router is now going to take one packet that you have sent. It is going to break it down into three smaller packets. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So this is called packet fragmentation. And this is something that will be done by your router or it might also be done by the host. Because host is Indian creating these packets which will be sent to the router. So at this level host will do that. But after this there is a sequence of routers through which these packets will have to pass. And every single router is going to take this decision. So routers are not going to pass on your packet blindly to the next device. They first need to understand whether this packet is meant for this internet itself. If that is the case, in that case they will use the subnet mask, they will check whether it is the same internet or not. Then they will check the port number transfer it to the device where it is meant to be sent. Otherwise they will figure out what is the next device that can take us to this specific estimation IP address. And what is the bandwidth of this link? So routers are very intelligent devices. They are not just going to find the shortest path, they are going to remove the MAC address of the previous, whatever has come from the previous device. Because this device has added the MAC address of your router. That is now useless. So going forward that has to be removed. And the MAC address of this router has to be added in the packet. The address of the earlier source, now because earlier destination now becomes source. And the earlier source is scrapped off. Now you have new source, new destination. The packet reaches here, this router again checks whether this packet is meant for its own internet. If that is the case, then it will simply pass it on to one of the devices which might be connected to it. Otherwise it will then pass it on to the next router. If there are multiple routers, then depending on the IP address, it is going to do the router. Does that make sense to everyone? Yes or no? Yes or no? Okay. So this size, the maximum size of which any, like which is this maximum size for which after which we are going to do a fragmentation of the packet is called MTU or maximum transmission unit. Now this is a standard way to measure the quality of the links between two different devices. If you are using a very good connection, if you are using a very good type of wiring, in that case the MTU is going to be high. If the MTU is lower, that means your router is going to do extra, the speed is going to be slow. Does that make sense? Okay. So now this is how your packets are going to be forwarded. Now another thing that when a packet is sent from your server or your host, which is your own laptop, does it have any IP address assigned to it? Or what is the IP address which the final destination is going to see? So suppose you want to get connected to Amazon server. Amazon has its own IP address, which let's say is 143. This is Amazon. Now when the packet reaches Amazon, it is going to have a source IP address and a destination IP address. Destination currently is this. Source is the IP address of the source from where the packet was originally. So what is going to be that source IP address? So let us say if this is the IP address of your system and similarly there are other systems as well, which are connected to the same network. Now Amazon has to send packets back to your system. This is where the request was initiated. This is these actual source. But when the packet reaches here, what is the source IP address that we are going to see? Is it the IP address of the last router or is it the IP address of the first router? This one? The router which is directly connected. So what we discussed in the last class was that these IP addresses that we see whenever you open your Wi-Fi setting or Internet setting or whenever you run the app on it, come out. The IP address that you see is a private IP address. It has no meaning outside this network. No one is able to recognize your system using this IP address. All the systems, all the host which are connected to this router, all of them by the outside world can be recognized by one single IP address, which is the global IP address, which is assigned to this router. So any request made by any of the host connected to this network is going to go using this IP address. Whatever IP address has been assigned to, this one. So suppose if this is 43.25.10.11. So this is going to be our source IP address. Does that mean since? So now that means that when Amazon has to send the packets back, Amazon needs to know or this server needs to know that the destination is this IP address, the IP address of this router. If it is the last router, then Amazon won't be able to send the packet back to this network. It needs to know what is the final destination that we have. Final destination is this one. So Amazon will be it will again go through the exact same cycle, the same things are going to happen. The data again is going to be encapsulated. This process of adding more and more information to the data more and more metadata small encapsulation. And once it reaches the other end, then all of these layers will be removed and eventually they will have the actual data that process is called decapsulation. So the same process of encapsulation is going to happen this side and eventually the data is going to reach this route. But from here, how does this router know that this data has to be transferred to this specific device and not any of these two? Baya, how I am going to switch hand here? What is a switch? Switch is a device where you can connect multiple hosts and then those host, then come to each of them. That's it. If you want to connect all of them or any of them to the internet, you need a router. And we have the router, even if you don't have a switch, then also it's going to work. Because in that case, they can still talk to each other through this router. Now, let me add a switch. Okay, let's do one thing. We'll come back to this in a few minutes. Before that, now since a switch has been brought up, what if there was a switch? So if we have a switch, that means we have multiple individual networks connected to this router. This might also be a case. So you have these three connected to one switch. And then this switch is connected to this router. And similarly, we may have another set of hosts which are connected to the same router, but through a different switch. So this is the scenario. Now, we are not just directly connected to the router. We are first connected to a switch and then that switch is connected to the router. Now, there are two type of communications which may take place here. What are the two type of communication? Either we may want to directly connect with or in fact, three type of communication. We may want to directly connect with any of the devices connected to the same switch or device of the same network, but different switch or a device which is completely outside this network, which can be any remote server like Amazon or Google. So let us understand all of these three one by one. First, if any of these machines has to communicate with within this small network, which is connected to this switch, how is that going to happen? They need to know the IP address, right? But is the IP address sufficient? What else do we need to know? We need the MAC address. Why do we need the MAC address? Because MAC address is going to facilitate the actual data transfer. If you don't have the MAC address of the next device, you will not be able to send the data in reality. IP address is a logical thing, but MAC address is a actual thing. It is something that is burned out in your network card. So Ethernet protocol or Wi-Fi protocol, they need the MAC address in order to transfer the data, which means that if this system needs to communicate with this system, it might be having an IP address. But in order to send the data, it needs the MAC address as well. So first thing that it is going to do is, first the data the request will be made to the switch. The switch analyzes, what is the destination IP address? Then the switch checks it with the subnet mask that it must be having. Using that subnet mask, it will take a decision that the destination belong to this small network. So all of you understand how can we do that? We have seen that in the previous class, right? If you have the subnet mask, you take the end with the IP address. If you are getting the same value, so IP address of this end the subnet mask and IP address of the destination at the subnet mask. Both of them should give the same value, which means both of them belong to the same network. If that is the case, that means the switch will get to know that both the devices are present or directly connected to it. So I can directly transfer the data, but a MAC address is required. So how will this device know the MAC address of this device? It is a MAC address, so it is a MAC address. It is a MAC address, so it is a MAC address. It is a MAC address. That is the MAC address. Correct. So something very similar is going to happen. And this is where we need the broadcast type. We discussed the broadcast type as well, right? So we need to broadcast it to all the devices connected to the network. So this packet is going to be broadcast with an IP address, a destination IP address. And there is a protocol, which is called the address resolution protocol or ARP. That is going to come into picture and this address resolution protocol, as per this protocol, the data is going to be transferred to all of them. Along with the IP address and there is a question which is asked to all the system. The question is, is this your IP address? If the answer is no, they will simply drop the packet. If the answer is yes, then they will send a response with the MAC address. And the moment this MAC address reaches here, this MAC address will be stored here, as well as inside this device as a cache. So that next time if they have to communicate with each other, we do not have to broadcast this packet to all the hosts connected to this network. So there is a ARP cache, which is maintained in your switch. Similarly, there is an ARP cache, which is maintained in your own devices. In fact, if you want to see that, you can probably go to your terminal. And just try to type ARP, hyphen A. Are you able to see anything there? You see a response when you do ARP hyphen A. So if you are seeing something, you are seeing list of IP addresses along with some MAC addresses. These are MACs, which is stored in your device. And this is a cache, which means this is not going to be there permanently. This will be refreshed. In future we will study what is cache, eviction or discussion validation. So there are different policies, different algorithms, social copy picture. And they will ensure that there is no spilled data that is being served. And the IP addresses, which are being used more frequently, they are always present in the cache. Which are not being used frequently, they are being removed automatically to save these things. So this is the cache, which is maintained. Now, using this ARP protocol, we can have this communication between devices, which are connected to same switch or even the same router. If you want to communicate, if there is a communication that has to happen between, say, this device A and this device B. In that case, again the exact same thing is going to happen. The packet will first be transferred to this switch. This switch figures out whether it is part of the same subnet or not. Is it the part of same subnet? So it is going to whatever subnet mass this switch has, which is going to be a subset of the subnet mass of this router. Some prefix is going to be same after that there is going to be some differences. So it will see that for both of these two, we are not getting the same value, which means this device does not belong to this subnet. So then it is going to pass on the packet to the next router. How does it know the IP, the MAC address of the next router using the ARP protocol? So now it knows the MAC address. So this router again is going to do the exact same thing. It will first use its subnet mass. Check whether this packet belongs to this subnet or not. The answer is yes. So in that case, it is going to forward it to the appropriate switch or router connected to it. Then this switch again does the exact same thing uses its subnet mass. And this time it will figure out that this machine belongs to this subnet. And then finally this packet is going to reach it. Does that make sense? Yes or no? Yes or no? So if we are having this type of communication, in that case these IP addresses are useful. Because all of these machines, they understand IP address of any other machine connected to the same network. All of them can communicate each other using these IP addresses. But the moment you go out in internet, these IP addresses are then meaningless. This remote host is not going to understand these IP addresses. This remote host is not going to understand the subnet mass of any of these devices. So in that case what we need is, we need a way to map the IP address, the external or the public IP address of this network, which is the IP address of the router with the IP address of the host, that is making this request. Is that making sense? So suppose if you want to open Amazon.com, your own private IP is this. And you want to create a connection, your source or sorry your destination is. Now destination should also be having a port. So let's say we are meeting a simple HTTP connection. So it is 480. This is the actual data. However, Amazon will not understand it. So what your router is going to do is, your router is going to create a mapping. The router will say that okay, let this IP address be inside our network. Let me translate this to something else. Let me translate this to my own IP address. So when Amazon is going to receive the packet, the source IP address has been changed. Which means Amazon is now going to pass the message whenever the packet reaches router. The router knows that okay, this was the IP address from where the request has been made. So you should come back to this. Is that make sense? Do you see any problem? What your router is doing is, it is simply replacing your IP address by its own. But can that create any problem? So initially this was the source and destination. Now the moment it reaches your router, it is going to change the source to its own IP. And destination is going to remain as it is because we have to reach the Amazon system. So destination is going to be as it is. Is there a problem with this type of mapping? When Amazon is going to respond back, Amazon will say that okay now this will become the new source. This is the new destination. And when it reaches this router, the router is having this mapping. The router can create a table which data structure do you think is going to be best suited for this type of lookup or hash mapping. So router can create a hash table internally for very fast lookups. It can have the private IP versus the public IP. Any design issue which you are able to see here? Private IP versus? Too many private IPs versus perps. So what is the issue there? That's why we have the public private thing right. So that we can have? Private IP can change. But that will only change if you are disconnecting. If the device is constantly connected, then it will not change. So network administrators generally have the chances. For example, I can open the router space here and I can see what packets you are transferring right now. So this is not a good security. Is there any other problem? M-B-Good. What type of M-B? M-B-Good. So now currently only this one is trying to open M-B-Good. What if this one also tries to open M-B-Good? So in that case a separate packet will be sent to M-B-Good. A separate response has to be received and there will be a mapping of this IP versus this IP stored in M-B-Good. But when the packet comes back, there are two mappings that we have against this. So if this laptop also tries to access Amazon.com, in that case there is another mapping that we have. Now if you see it from a hash maps perspective, you can have duplicate values. But for these type of lookups, you need this public IP as a key right? So you cannot have two different mappings for the same IP address. Which means now the router does not know where exactly this packet has to be transferred. Shouldn't this be transferred to this device or this device? Does that make sense to everyone? So how can we resolve this? Add another layer of information which is port. We can add, even if let's say there is or probably let's try to construct the answer. So another layer of information could be port. So for example here we can say that this was sent from a port let's say 3333. And this was sent from a port to to to to. Now when your where a response comes back in your hash map, if this is also added along with the IP address. Now you know that this response has to be sent to this specific device or this one. Does that make sense? Yes or no? But can ports repeat? These are ports present in two different devices. So if you want to have a port that is the right port. Now if the random was to the other device it was just second. So we need to check the port to another device. No but we just discussed right that there is a port which is assigned to these packets. And that port is assigned by the port randomly. Because there is no fixed mapping of port. So if let us say this data packet has a port assigned to it as 2222. Any other data packet coming out from any other device. Now also we assign this port because these are present in two different servers. These are present in two different operating systems. And there is no way they can communicate with each other and check whether this port has been used or not. If the router starts doing that then the request itself is going to take a lot of time. If latency will increase the router will check with other devices whether this port has been utilized or not. Then send a response time. So either the latency is increasing or the ambiguity is increasing. Mac address will be used. That is where we have the address resolution protocol. But Mac address can only help you from one device to the immediate via next device. It cannot help you to the final destination. Not the more we store. So storage is not going to have an impact in the latency. But if the router has to reach out to all the hosts and then check that will increase the latency. If the router is stored everything in a hash map that can reduce latency. We can say that yes. We need to make it dumb. How to make it dumb? What we can do here is we can simply assign a random port by the router. So there is a port assigned which talks about the service. But then this router can have another port which tells us which device this packet is meant for. And then the router will ensure since this assignment is not being done in a decentralized way by individual devices. Since this assignment is being done by the router, the router will ensure that it is not allowing the same port to multiple devices. Here? Yes or no? It is the random port. How is it stored? Right. How do we make it? Yes, definitely. There will be numeric limits depending on what type of router we are using, what type of service we are using. Generally ports are supposed to be four digit numbers. And some of the ports are already reserved. So depending on whatever is the open range for ports, we are going to have a limitation. And if that limit is reached, then in that case we may have to implement some type of rate limitation in the router limit. So does this limit seems to have given? So the IP address is supposed to be changed. And for all of these devices, the IP address is going to be same. The IP address is going to be the IP of this router. So when the packet comes back, it needs to know some information which can take it to individual hosts. Because all of the IP address is going to be this. So that information is this port number which is this router is a name. So router is assigning some random port which is going to be dynamic in nature which means it is possible next time and the same host makes a request or different port with a sign. Because the router is going to have limited amount of memory. The router may have many such host devices. So depending on how many requests are being made from which some network the assignment of port is going to be very dynamic in nature. But that port is going to be used in the hash table in order to figure out what is the exact host where this packet has to be transferred. Does that make sense? So no. This again is a protocol which is called an 80 or probably P80 because we are having port address transfer. So network address transfer and in that network address we are not just transferring or translating the IP address. So also translating the port. There is a source port but added in the packet but the router is adding another port number to it so that it knows which device this packet has to be signed and then inside it that device there is a port number which represents the service. Clear? Yes or no? Now I have a question for all of you. If you see this once again the packet is initiating from here the packet has the information of destination IP destination port and the source IP as well. And some source port which is randomly assigned then it reaches this switch then it reaches this router. This router is going to translate the IP address it is going to rewrite the IP address as it so it is going to rewrite the port number as well as something random assigned by itself. So now going forward the source IP address is this and source port is something else. Source port is something that is representing this machine in this summer. So this server it transfers the data back to the router. It has the exact port number it has the IP address which states it to this router it also has the port number using which the router can redirect the request to the correctness. Is anyone clear to this point? Yes or no? What if one of these has to act as a server? Right now they are working as a client which means they are initiating the request. So their request is going to go through this router and this router is then ensuring that in future if any outside device tries to reach out to them this is the way forward. But what if these devices they want to act as host for example if you want to start a gaming server and you want your friends who are not part of your network to join that server. Can you do that? You can do that right? You can start a gaming server you can start a counter strike server or whatever games you play and you can ask your friends to join that server. How does that work? Your own host your own machine is working as a server at that time. However for that to happen your peers or host sitting outside your network they need to know your problem which is assigned by this router randomly when you make a connection. Is anyone able to understand the problem statement? The problem here is that while the router is maintaining this mapping but this mapping is only available to the devices you are reaching out. Only they can see what is the destination I pay address and what is the port where they have to transfer the data. Any random device does not know how to reach out to your machine. They don't know how to reach out to your machine through this router because they are unaware of the port number assigned by the router. Is the problem here? So how does a gaming server work? So this is what? We are able to do right now. There is some I pay address. This goes to the router but after this it is changed. It is changed to something else. And along with this the router assigns its own port number so that when the response comes back it knows that this response should be transferred to this specific machine. The router is going to assign a random port number to one to one. And whatever is the destination I pay address is going to create a mapping. So there is a port which is sent by your own host and then there is a port which your router assigns. So you have the I pay address and port this is the original one or local one. And then this is assigned by your NET protocol. So your I pay address is this. And the port is assigned initially let's say was 2 to 2. The router is going to change this I pay address to its own. And it is going to assign you a random port which is not assigned to any other host in that network. So then this thing becomes the source for the remote server. When the data comes back it checks in the packet what is the destination the destination is this. So it knows that the mapping of this is this server so that the data can be transferred to this specific device. However if there is another device which you have not reached out to and you want this device to make a connection with your local system here. How can this be done? You are running a gaming server. For which this device needs to speak with your device which is currently not having any. You are going to pay address that you have the public IP address is the IP address of this router which is same for all of the systems connected to you. So if you have a network which is connected to you, you can use it to make a connection with your local system. So if you have a network which is connected to you, you can use it to make a connection with your local system. So we are like a static IP address of the network which we have set out. Yes. So intently what is going to happen is what these two guys mentioned. We are going to do something known as old forwarding. What we need to do is so this host is anyways going to assign some port, some random port. So that this router or this application knows where exactly the data has to be displayed. The port that talks about the application or the service. So what we can do is we can ensure that the same port becomes open for people connected to internet. For people outside this network that process is called old forwarding. You can go to your router's configuration page and there you can configure your own port. You can write your own IP address and then you can write whichever port you want to open for everywhere. And then few more steps that you will have to take in that configuration. Once that is done and this port is open to enable. That means you have forwarded this port over the internet. So now this person can also connect because your port is open. So suppose if you are running a HTTP server, the port is going to be 80. You would want that people are able to connect you at port 80 because that is the default port for HTTP. But what if this guy also wants to start a HTTP server? Same IP address, same port. There is going to be a conflict right? So in such cases you will have to select a different port. Your router will not allow you to have two different ports for two different machines. So you will have to then select a different port for whatever service you are running here. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So port forwarding is something using which you can make your own server available to the internet. Even if you are connected through router or through a sequence of these devices which are and then no. Then also you can make your system, make your server available to everyone in the internet. Is that clear? Yes or no? Okay, so is this whole thing making sense to all of you? How the packets are created? What happens in every step? So what is happening at the device? What is happening at the router? Which is directly connected to your network? What is happening in the routers which are connected? Subsequently in this line. Is that I mean all of you able to get some idea about it? Yes or no? Okay, so what we will do is as we discussed in the last class that we need to understand how this subnitting works. Because in the end when the packet comes to any of the router, how does the router know whether this packet belongs to its own internet or whether it has to be forwarded to the next device? The answer to that is subnitting using the subnet mass. So using the subnet mass the router can identify whether the packet belongs to its own network or it belongs to some other external network. And that is why understanding the subnet mass and figuring out the network IP, raw class IP that is very important. So we will again do some questions which we are doing in the last class and you can also expect a lot of these type of questions in the quiz that we are going to have, which is the graded piece. In fact, even in your end up exam. So I will again give you some IP addresses and some subnet mass. Initially you just have to figure out the network IP, the broadcast IP, the number of posts. Then we will change how we are representing the subnet mass. Apparently in the last class we saw that subnet mass is represented in a way very similar to how we represent IP addresses. You all will be remember what is a subnet mass. So whenever you have an IP address, right, for example, you have these IP addresses of these local IP addresses or private IP addresses. So this router and in fact all of these subnets are going to maintain their own subnet mass. Which tells you what is the IP address of the network, which means if that part is present as a prefix, then that device definitely belongs to this server. Out of all of them, which device is supposed to receive the packet that will get to know using the address resolution protocol. But whether it belongs to this specific subnet or not, that is decided by the subnet mass. So IP address as we discussed in the last class is a 32 bit long number, which has four octets, which means four set of eight bits. And these bits represent the address. Subnet mass tells us what part of this IP address belongs to the network and what part of this IP address belongs to the host. So for example, if your IP address in binary is something like this. So this is your IP address and if this is the subnet mass, can we have a subnet mass like this? Correct. So this can never be a subnet mass because a subnet mass should always have all the ones together on the left side. All the zeros together on the right side. If everything is one, then entire thing is going to be one. If everything is zero and entire thing is going to be zero. But if there are ones and zeros both, then all the ones should be aligned towards left. All the zeros should be aligned towards right. Why? Because that is the purpose of the subnet mass. Subnet mass is telling you how many bits from the left side represent the network. So whatever is the right most one that you have in the subnet mass, that is the point in which your bits are representing your network IP. So these numbers here, this and this. This is part of the network IP address. And the remaining are part of the host IP address, which means you can keep changing them and you can keep getting a new IP address for a new host present in that specific network. But if you are going to add a new host in that network, you cannot change any of these bits. These are going to remain constant for every device inside that subnet. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So in order to get the network IP address, what we can do is we can simply take a bitwise end, which means you directly copy everything corresponding to these ones. And anything above zero can be simply kept as that becomes your network IP address. So no matter which devices IP address you take, whenever you do this operation, whenever you take a bitwise end with the subnet mass, you are always going to get the same IP address. Because for all of them, this part is going to repeat and this part is all of these are zero end is going to simply set everything to zero. So for every single device, you take the network IP address, you take a net, you will be getting the same value, which is the IP address of this network. And this is how these devices get to know whether the destination belong to this small subnet or not. Okay? Yes or no? Okay. So for getting a network IP address, you can simply take the end. What is the broadcast IP address? How do we get the broadcast IP address? Correct. So in the host part, if you change all the zeros to one, then whatever value you get, that is the broadcast IP address. You can still not touch any of these bits. Anything that belongs to the network part, that is not supposed to be changed. That is going to remain as it is. You simply set all of these two words that becomes the broadcast IP. Broadcast IP means if you are sending a packet to that IP, it will be broadcasted to all the devices in this network. Is that clear? Yes or no? Okay. So how many devices can be connected to this network or how many devices can be connected to any network in one room? You have the IP address, right? Let's say this is the IP address that you have. This is the IP address that you have and these are 32 bits in total. Out of this, let's say you have 28 bits representing the network part and you have the remaining four bits. For the host, if this is the case, how many devices can be connected to this network at max? So we definitely cannot change any of these 28 bits. If you want to get a new IP address, you will have to change some of these bits. So we have four choices here, which means in total how many unique values can be generated to the power, which is 16. But can we add 16 devices? No. Because this followed by all zeros is the network IP address. It is already reserved and this followed by all words is the broadcast IP address. That is also reserved. So you will have to subtract two in order to get the total number of hosts that can be connected to this network. Is that clear? No. Okay. So let us take the first IP address. Your subnet mask is 255. You have to tell what is the network IP address. What is the first IP address? How many hosts can be connected to this network? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. 18.99 this part is going to remain there with every single post as an IP as a local IP address with every single host that gets connected to this network. Then after this we have 5 more digits so these are also going to be same so what number are we going to get? So, going to be 1, 1, 0, 1 and then rest all 0s. What number do we get? 202, 0 and what is the Brookas type? Brookas type means you take the entire IP address and whatever is the host part in it, host part means that corresponds to the 0s in your subnet mass. You simply change that to 1. So, we have 3 0s so last 3 if you change to 1 what are we going to get? What? And how many hosts get connected to this network? We have 2 raise to power 3 which means 8, 2 of them are reserved so we have 6 of them. Now, going forward what we will do is we do not really need this long representation of the subnet mass right. Right now what we are doing is we are actually using 32 bits of we are using these many integers to convey the information that these many consecutive bits are going to be once and after that we have seen. What if we directly store the count of these words? That is also into a sufficient time. In this case how many words do we have? What is the count of consecutive words that we have? 29 so we can simply say that this IP address we can write it as this slash 29 that is it. It means the exact same thing. We do not really need this long representation if you write it like this this means that in this subnet mass there are first 29 consecutive words and then all the remaining bits are same. So, you know by this information you know how many ones are there so you know how many bits are representing the network? You also know what is the exact number of host bits? You do not know how to do the conversion there right because this is 29 you know that it makes it can be 32 so you can subtract and you get the number of host. So, calculating this number becomes even easier does that make sense? So, now I will not be giving you the exact subnet mass as an IP address I will be writing the IP in this form. So, this is the IP address you have to figure out what is the network IP what is the drop pass IP? So, this representation means that the first 18 bits in our subnet mass are one. First 18 bits means 8 bits plus 8 bits and then 2 bits from this side. So, which means you can say that this part is going to be as it is because the first left most 18 bits out of them 16 are governing this part. So, it is going to have 32.190 in fact, even drop pass IP is going to have this part. Now, from the remaining part only the first two bits are set. First two bits being set means what is 29? So, first bit represents which number 128 right second bit represent 64 this is smaller than both of them which means you this is your subnet mass but in this number both of them are unsaid and remaining could be said could be unsaid we do not need to worry because all of these are 0 when we take an end everything here is going to become 0. So, this becomes 0 and then after this the remaining bits and the bits are going to be 0. So, this also is going to be 0. So, this becomes your network IP. How do you get the drop pass IP? For drop pass the only thing that you have to do is set all the host bits as one if you set all of them. So, the first 18 are belonging to the network which means the remaining all of them have to be set as one. So, if you set all of these as one this is going to become 255. Now, what is going to happen here? What will happen to this part? You only have two bits out of the 8 bits the first two bits belong to the network but they are set as 0 you cannot change them but you can set the remaining bits. So, you can set all 6 bits as one if you set if you have 6 set bits what is going to be the number? 2 raise to power 1 4 raise to power 14 you have 6 set bits. How do you quickly get this number? 2 to the power 6 minus 1 which is 63. So, this becomes your problem drop pass title ok. This is how you can quickly do these calculations if the numbers allow you to do that. How many hosts are we going to have? So, what is the number of bits that are reserved for hosts? How many bits do we have for hosts? 14 which means 2 raise to power 14 minus whatever this number is that becomes the count of hosts that can be connected. Is that clear? Yes or no? Ok. Let us do one more. So, again you have to figure out how many what is the network IP and what is the number? This is the IP address that you have now we have 25 bits in the subnet mass as set. 25 bits means all of these are going to be covered and then one bit from the last update that we have which means the first three omplits are going to the as it is. So, this becomes 1 to 1.136.2. Now, we only need to know what happens with the last update. So, in the last update here we have 139. 139 is greater than 128 which means this bit is going to be set and this bit is set in the subnet mass as well. After that all the other bits are going to be 0. So, only one bit set which represents 128 means this is 1.10. Ok. What about the drawn cast type is? This part again is going to remain as it is. If you set all the host bits this bit is already set in 139. If you set all the other remaining host bits then you have all ones which is the maximum number that you can create which is 250. Is that clear? Yes or no? How many hosts can we have? We have how many host bits are there? 7 bits are there right? 7 bits can be used to host. So, we have to restore our 7 minus this number becomes the count of host devices that can connect to this one. Then here is so no one more. So, we have 19 bits from the left. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. So, we have to set in the subnet mass. Okay. So, again we have 19 bits set 19 bits means first two octaves are covered entirely which means we are going to have 151.223. Now for 75 is smaller than 128. So, this is going to be 0. Then you have the next bit representing 64. This is going to be 1. Next bit is representing 32. What about this? 0 right? 64 plus 32 is definitely greater than 75. So, this is going to be 0. And this is where our subnet mass ends. So, out of these only one bit is set which is representing 64. All the remaining bits are going to be 0. So, this becomes 64. What about the last number? All the other remaining bits anyways are 0. So, taking a bitwise end will result in 0. What about the broadcast? This part is going to remain as it is. You change all of these bits to one. This is going to become 255. What about this part? These three belong to the network part. After this the remaining 5 bits can be changed to one. So, whatever this number is that is going to come here. What is this number in decimal? 19. So, we get 95. Is that clear? What is the number of hosts? 2 power 13 minus 2. This becomes the answer. Is that clear? So, now we will end here. In the next class we will start with the basics of routing for which we will have to learn a new data structure and some algorithms over that data structure which is called graph. But before that we will also learn how this subnetting works which means if you let us say have a IP address and you want to create smaller subnet. How exactly are you going to assign these ranges to them? For example, if you have to design the network for a large company which has one department having 50 devices, other department having or expecting let us say 70 devices. How do you assign ranges of IP addresses to them? That is something we will learn in the next class before we start the graph. These type of questions as I said earlier you can expect all of these questions we will have to tell the network, broadcast number of hosts. We will also learn in the next class. I will also tell about the classes of these subnet mouse depending on how many hosts can be connected. These are classified into class A, B and C. So, that is also something we will explore in the next class. And that is also something you can expect in the questions that you are going to get in your quizzes and your enter exam. I have added few more videos in your sheet and I will keep adding more videos. So, please keep going through them. Those videos will not cover anything that is going to be very important for the exam. But if you want to explore things other than the prescribed syllabus then those videos are there. Today also I am going to add a few more things, probably some blogs and some more videos. So, please go through them. By the way in today's class we have discussed few very important protocols. So, just before we close let us quickly recall what exactly have been discussed in the class. So, first thing that we discussed was what is a maximum transfer unit. So, every data link layer is going to check whether the current size is viable for that network or not. So, if that is not the case that is going to further break it down into smaller fragments. Empty. Then we discussed how a device connected to a switch gets to know what is the MAC address of the next device or MAC address of the device where the packet has to be sent. That is done through ARP which is address resolution for the phone. And then when you are sending a request to the internet to a remote device over the internet then your router is going to do a translation of your local IP address to its own IP address which is called the network address translation. And since that in itself is going to be ambiguous you will also have to add a port here. So, it is going to be NAD and PAD, port address translation. So, these are some important protocols and keywords which we have discussed. Please ensure that you revise them specifically.