We'll start off in two minutes. Is it visible in all 9 plus? Can we check on this? If someone has opened, yeah, it's clearly shared. So, first thing first, 90-0 is about the next level. Some quizzes are going to have a negative. Next is the negative. It's very good. But I think there is one quiz. It says, after such a 9, 2K and then they're going to be. After such a 9, it says after such a 109, after that it's going to be 2K and then. Where is it? So, one thing I didn't have that. So, you guys already took the lecture of bias-medium instead of, sorry, where it is. So, you are going on time. So, there is another section, this is section C. So, there is another section which is A, which I was not able to took the bias-medium. So, the thing is, whatever is written there in the exit sheet, that thing of me and. Chitwan has decided and we think that around session 1, 2, 8 will be covered in the quiz, which A is going to be completed by next Saturday or something. So, to be precise, I have some questions coming in the examination table. So, it makes up what I would say MCQ and 2 questions. So, I have put like one mathematical question also, but that is again in the MCQ product, we will have two options. And the format will be like MCQ and 2K questions would be. And the coding questions, it is not something which you have to like go like and like hard-go-different. It is just like you should be aware to get the import libraries upon. That is it. Like what library need to be ported, that is the kind of integration that I am using. And the other thing is like, for example, if we have learned some formula, so that formula you should be able to write in terms of code. One or two lines, that is not more than that. And the mathematical question also, it is like super-superly. When we talked like we just only wanted it in a way that you remember whatever the formula is. There are not how we are getting the calculation, then that is the core idea. I don't think so like this. So, I feel like if the questions are set, then at least the MCQ part will be getting all of the answers as correct. I don't feel anything which is going off there. So, if you get to know the libraries and all just look at the first, very first load book that I have sent it to you. So, every model which are there, for example, in the regression model was there, or there was there, whatever you are reporting, just keep that in mind. So, what models you are importing, and rest is defined. So, possibly the thing is that we have to write as a service. But let's say it will be just touch, whatever I have got, I put it like, for example, the next writing will be covered Saturday, right? So, you will get like less time to write or maybe like a suppressed week. So, I decided that we should not like cover two months topics in the next day, just keep it simple. And only one or two topics should be there. And that is it. That will illustrate all the question. I guess 30 minutes, 45 minutes of time will be eroded to you guys. Might complete in 20, 25 minutes, not more than that. And I am curious, I am not. So, yeah, anything which is, which you guys want to be taken care of in the quiz or something, which is not going like, if you want it in a way, or maybe I should put up with the other instructor. Just let me know like, if there is anything. If you try to make one look at this question, your options will look good. I will do it. Like, I will do it by today only. Okay. So, okay. That was on the quiz part. So, like from the previous lectures, any thing which is not clear to you, bias variance, did office clear? Any questions, which is getting confusing and all? No. Okay. So, now we are going ahead in the regular relation, cross validation techniques. So, like this is again, what I say, a second layer to bias variance, you know. So, now we have seen like what was bias and what was variance, what was their causes, like how can we go ahead and have the remedy for it? How can we go ahead and relate it? And those things we already have an idea and we already looked at that. Why these things were creating a problem to any kind of machine learning model, which is there. So, to eliminate those bias and variance, we had some techniques, right? So, those techniques are the thing, but the regular relation, cross validation. So, this is going to be a pretty much fast, not fast actually. Very short, but very conceptual lecture on regular relation, cross validation techniques. So, everything that is given in the formula is an all. It is already linked to session 2, right? So, whatever, like, so for example, going forward, everything is going in a higher end, it will find that, okay. So, this anything is coming up that is that has been already set up a formulation previously, right? You already know the concept. It's just like, I see the formula, you won't be able to like guess the concept, but once I give you a hint, you will just have everything, every thoughts connected, right? From previous. So, that can be, like, I don't know this session that we cover, like, what, regularization and cross-dradition is actually being, and by, like, they are supermancery going forward to categorize and variance. So, first thing, like, this thing is the rich, the last so, right? I used to tell you guys previously, when we were in session 4, session 5, something like that, right? I told you, and that, and that, will be going to cover, Treasure Laster, right? And the first one is the last thing, which is the perspective, I think, that we'll see how it is very much at a combination side of the region also, okay? So, then, what, see, we have a name of Treasure Laster, and we call it as a 2 and 1, okay? So, we have the own transformation basis, and they have the more meta-exit, right? So, they, they make our lives, it's basically easier by eliminating the bias and variance. So, religion, basso is that, like, techniques, right? So, keep in mind that there techniques, nothing more than that. They are not, like, algorithms, but they are techniques, right? So, the third thing is that, we'll see, like, A4 cross-validation techniques, so, we'll see, like, how the cross-validation technique is taken care of, that part is the meaning of the K4. K is basically the number, right? And, how, 4s means, like, how many, 4s are there in each number? Okay, and then, we'll see that, we get, what we've already did, right? Three versus three, because they are totally different, they are not different, right? So, we'll see, like, how we get the hyper-bathletons to avoid the leakage, right? And, this, so, the first thing, right? So, why we wanted, what was the reason of the bias, and what was the reason of the variance? Why is it that we have a common way to actually calculate? And, the reason was, like, how spread, how, like, each and every, what prediction that I'm making is, like, how, how much the gap is between each and every prediction, like, how much covered, like, if you remember the dark, how fast the spread of my prediction is actually the correlation to the target area, okay? So, the thing is, like, we have, we were, we were studying the data coefficients, right? So, if we are having the numbers of coefficient, the numbers of features, the data, because the features of features will be there, right? So, we will not have any kind of, so, correct, keep going, that time, it will just have, like, enormous large coefficients, which will make my life really, really, actually, forward, it's the number of features, because, so, I didn't, that we've done a minor to each, respective features that we created, you can, right? So, that was the other, the intuition, right? So, if we are having, like, very, very large coefficient, the numbers, so, like, I'm going to look for my coefficient values, one, right? And, I'm, I'm going to look at one data value, which is one, that, to any one of the x value, right? So, that thing will be one, like, times, right? So, like, that, the data will decrease very, very high. So, that's the idea, we want to control our model, right? So, control our model is nothing, but we want that our model shouldn't be in a situation that it goes with a very, very, very exceptionally high data values, when those exceptionally high data values are there, that means that feature, where those exceptionally high data values are getting multiplied, we are increasing the weight of that feature, right? So, for example, there are two features, what I would say, the area of the house and the location of the house, right? So, if I go ahead and multiply the area of the house by 5, and the location of the house by 5, right? So, in that way, what I'm telling the model that you should be totally dependent on the location of the house, you don't, like, do I look at the area of the house, but that is, like, negligible when we compare both of them, because we are multiplying that location by a very huge, coefficient factor. So, that will let the model to go ahead and have a very large enormous spread, and there is the problem that is arising, we should have a capping right? So, if we are giving very large coefficients for the beta value, then these techniques, which is a last-or-age or last-or-spec, they are meant to control and finalize, right? So, when I told you that what was happening, so, previously, like, this plan has, let's say, 10,000 features, okay? With us. Now, we have to build a model, right? So, if we are building a model, then what can happen? I can choose, like, the best 1,000 feature, all of the 10,000 features, which is going to be segregated in a model, which will be a source of that, okay? So, that is one thing you can choose. Now, the other guy, what he will do, like, he will take it back and house the features to the model and do it, right? So, at that moment, what will happen is, like, at getting an, as well as 0.9 using 1,000 features, right? And the other guy is getting as well as 0.9 to, right? So, there's only 2% extra variance, which is being captured by using 9,000, how the best of features, right? So, if we are using 9,000 extra features, that means we are making our model very, very complex, right? So, getting an additional, like, getting an improvement of 2% additional, what I would say, the variance is captured by the model. And at the cost of adding 9,000 features to the model, that is a practically logical sense, right? So, the amount of gain that you are going to get is very, very, very, very, very, very, so it's one of the services to reward ratio. So, we are testing a lot of models of complexity of traditional time, then in the amount of reward we are getting out for it. So, the rich and large sum or the large stipend or any of the regularization techniques, what to do is like, they have, they have be met to control the complexity of the model, how? So, for example, if we are unnecessarily increasing the data value unnecessarily in the added of features, then that design in the model is, say, you are increasing the model complexity, let me give up an ID for every complexity you add, right? So, for example, if I say, like, you, you have, you are giving the test, right? So, now you have life experience, okay? So, you have, phone or friend, right? So, you have to deflection that. I allow you to go and talk to another guy, it is also very bad, right? So, I do want to give it over and talk to another guy, how many times you want? So, it is basically like, I allow you to cheat for every question, right? So, that is one of the things, so you will get us on my decks, you will go at the back and you will discuss something, then you come back and you will write that, right? So, what I will say, it is okay, right? It is okay to discuss, it is okay to go ahead and ask the answer, come back and write out your people. But every time you are going to discuss, let's say the number of question I have in hand and you have discussed, like every question is having one mark. So, every time you are going to discuss, I will get that like 0.2 marks. So, now the maximum marks you can get is like 0.8, it is not 1 marks, even if you write the actual answer, like you won't get 1 mark, because you have discussed, right? So, this is the exact kind of intuition that Ragell lost its. So, it will see that we are increasing the model complexity, so no, it knows that the model is now getting additional data additional features into it. So, what I will do is, I will analyze the model on every ongoing features, so that if we are thinking to add more and more and more features, there is a cost to it. It is not getting for free, if you are getting to go ahead and discuss the answer to your friend, then there is the cost for it. So, now like if the question, like if you have written it from your own, you have got 1 marks full, then like rather than discussing with your friend, now you will got 0.7 marks. The full marks has not decreased for you, that is the go right here, right? So, clear, like what it does, what is the intuition of this? So, this is one of the things, right? So, I have a price for complexity, right? What is the price like? We are increasing the complexity and what is the price that we are adding? So, you know like lost terms is at the same mean square error, right? Mean square error has been written like multiple times in multiple like formulas, every time, but the core ID I see same. So, by example, if you have written mean square error, then that will be like what? Why high minus my wife, right? Actually, my expectation, whatever, the thing is that mean square, like the, the, the, the, the situation was like a big five, it was there, at least five. Means square error there, and then we have one additional like, but, but, but, firstly we have added one additional which is the lambda. And this is the color point is not the primary, right? So, this is nothing but the lost function, which is there. So, we are actually, actually, of the double position, which is there, we are getting higher, this is the, the, the, the, the, the, the, I'm a parity as an I'm right up. So, so this is what, what, like it's called as a intentional trading, you know, so if we are adding more complexity to the beta coefficient, a larger value to the beta coefficient, we can throw it by multiplying that beta coefficient itself with lambda. Okay. So, that is something which is there. So, the thing is like, previously there was only one thing we were stating about how the model is getting fit, right? So, we only had a, before bias and variance, right? Till, okay, till bias and variance also we were only considering the how the model is going to the fit, right? If it is perform good, right? Very good, right? So, that, that was the consideration where we were going to see like how the model is getting fit and how we are doing, like, if you are doing good in terms of actual predicted values or also. That was the case, but now it's not only about how good we are, right? So, it's also about like how good as well as how complex the model is, right? So, let's say a very, very classic example that suddenly hit my mind, right? Is, is slow, right? If you see the work of is slow, you know, so, and if you compare it with NASA, so the risk to reward ratio is slow is way, way, way higher than NASA, right? Way higher, like, there is not even a single comparison that, like, that says NASA and not even a single comparison. Why so? Because if you see the cost of one Hollywood movie, that is like going to be released in US or anywhere, right? Maybe you have a movie which is played by Tom Cruise, mission impossible, something kind of a movie or maybe Mars or anything like that. This goes sending a rocket less than that cost, right? And if the same thing is happening at like 20 times, 50 times more in NASA, right? That's not good. That's not actual, like what I'll say, optimization. So, you know, like NASA is not optimized. It does not solve, basically, like, it's so, it's very, very much optimized. We are able to successfully do the moon mission or the Mars mission or whatever, like, is there. We are launching the satellite at a very 1 by 100 of the cost of what NASA is within the PN way, very, very high. It's like blessing in this guy, you know, we are going with scarcity, but scarcity is giving us other opportunities to go ahead and make the entire very optimized. Same to his destiny. Like, we don't care about like how well our model is performing, right? We do care, but that is not the only point that we get, right? So, if we are performing like little bit even close to like whatever our desired value is, but our cost is very much like friendly to our pocket. And the computation is really, really light on the hardware side. Then, really good. That's the ideal objective that any kind of a, what I'll say, the engineers dream to have, right? So, they have like, they want to go as close as the target, but we again at the point they want like the resources to be less utilized. Okay. So, yeah, this was pretty much it. And again, if the penalty was there, then from R square, we'll be going into adjusted R square. I just said I was well in R square. We were not considering number of features. So, as per the number of features were getting increased, then the adjusted R square is always there in the R square. R square will keep on increasing as we add like more features to it. So, this is the whole intuition that like the region last one last technique will work on. Okay. Now, just have the mic right. I will be going to the sitting to the door to the question coming for the eyes and the ears. There will be a question coming on right. So, a time of the last thing is for them. So, the ten guess we have rich last one. Okay. And then third is the last technique. So, every time previously also we have seen, we saw like two of the things. One was very extreme. One was extreme after the road. And there was a significant tendency to like we spoke about the things and then it's very different. So, we just want to get the best out of every way. That's who we are. So, the thing is like we don't want compromization. Like we want everything to be there in certain certain proportion like in a mixture or something. So, that is the core idea of these three algorithms also. Easy way to remember what is L1 and L2. L1 and L2 are nothing but the entire terminal algorithm. So, don't understand the level of the algorithm. It's just L1 algorithm. So, remember L1 is last one. So, L4 is also L4M. So, that's the number that L1 will be the relation. So, they are like just a terminal algorithm, L1. And for the evaluation, L1 is last one and 2 is rich. Simple way to identify it. So, someone asked what is the algorithm relation that is nothing but last one. And then to like the relation, it is nothing but the rich. So, here is one thing now. This might be, you notice that this is nothing but a matrix form. So, you don't need to go ahead with the same thing right there. Just want to just get an algorithm that thing is meeting right now. Again, like I told you this is a formula. Just try to go ahead and see the, my new sort of formula, very basic. That is not mine and they did it. That thing you have to see that formula into the place. So, the first thing right now beta. Beta is what coefficient. So, next this, why is nothing but a matrix of our actual values. Why is it created? This is what xp does. Again, if you go back to the matrix formulation of linear equation right. So, basically this prediction right, x is nothing but our features matrix right. And we dice nothing but our coefficient matrix. Actually, next to it, we have our matrix here. So, we have a equation of the matrix of what? So, we have to do xp. So, if y hat is plus xp done, then xp does y hat. So, this is, this is, this is, this is, we don't know, but y minus y hat, which is what? So, now that that part, the number more is nothing but the mean, the representation. And x is right. So, this term is becoming what means parameters right. So, now if the mean is right, there is the, then we are added for this, this, this, this, that's right. That's remember in which we are using d-square. In last, we'll be using this absolute value of beta right. So, that d-square is there. We are taking all the coefficients which are there, all the coefficients. So, point, whatever parameters are there. P is 1, number of features right. So, let's see there right. So, it is, some sort of a component, 1 to p. So, 1 to p is right what we are having p features right. So, every feature is there not in the amount of data which is required. So, for every feature we are just taking the data position, we are describing it from 1 to p. Okay, here, this, this part, every detail, we are having p features. So, then we will be having p-discord data, we are just describing it and solving it right. Okay, now, lambda is nothing but a tanality right. It's just a tanality that we are having right. So, now, first we will be like, why we are doing p-discord for just understand this. And we will be taking mod of beta for last, but why we guys find. Any intuition that like why we are going to take that, but beta as well. So, that doesn't become 0, it comes very near to 0 but never 0. Correct. Correct, correct. Like, definitely guys. So, the thing is that we have our data right. Now, in rich multi-class right. So, let's say our beta values pages from sometimes it's written again. So, if we have our data values there and let's say 1 beta value is having minus 5 value. The other beta values are in plus 5 value. So, if we do a summation right minus 5, this is something but summation right. If we have not used that we have not used square then beta 1 plus beta 2 plus beta 3 then all the features are written. So, let's say 1 beta value is minus 5 second beta 1 plus 5 will get cancelled. So, if those two beta values are getting cancelled out that means what is happening. 0's right. If that that can be 0 that that that will be to work. This thing that's thing in beta reaction only. Not beta reaction but in terms of other formula only. If beta we come to 0 right it cancels out. So, whatever feature that beta was multiplied right. That feature. That right that feature is damaged that features gone by. So, the rich is something is a via using beta square purposely to just see the magnitudes right not the directions. So, in which we will never, never drop any kind of feature because we are using square right. So, there is no way that we go and drop it. It will go to the here to 0 very very small value but it will it will never go. So, other than we are using rich in terms of just shrinkage right. It is not dropping understood. So, if we want like there are scenarios that is we want like our features to be shrink to be compromised. Then then we will use rich right because it will decrease the beta value to decrease the like what I said a beta from that entire feature right. But it will never ever be in a situation that that feature itself is gone from the algorithm right. So, that is where we are use our rich and see the same thing like if you know this virus try to understand this thing right. This one similar might as it is as vice-versa for example, 0 0 0 as there. Now, if I find something some values right and for some values are there and people are like that who is similar matter. Then that I will be having some some sort of values then this x x of x comes over x will become invertible previously it was not invertible just understand this. Because it was a similar matrix right. Now, we are having something multiplied by lambda lambda is a constant right. If we multiply the matrix by constant it will be like multiplied right. So, now that time the x star goes as becomes invertible. So, we are keeping the whole idea is like we are not dropping any kind of a feature. Rich is only use to shrink the model right not to draw the model. So, if anyone tells you that I have like 10 features and I am using rich 10 to 10 is the possible causes like they are using all the time features. But they are shrinking the weightage of those 10 features but all those 10 features will be present there. So, you will use rich when you do not want purpose me any features should be dropped. That is when you use the rich it will regularize it will penalize it but it won't let the like features to be dropped out from the equation right. So, keep time. So, that is why this is a good time to organization. Now, our distance just from normally to really now there is two steady balance and the x is same right. So, the first thing we are having like x and y two points for the x 1 x so and what is the value of y 1 point and 2.2. That means x 1 is what x and y are there right. They are having 2 point values 1, 2 and 2, 4. So, if I say x 1 then what is the value of x 1? 1 x 2 2 right y 1 is 2 y 2 is 4 simple ok. So, now is the new assumption of x square right summation right what is the summation of x is that that is the features right. So, if this first summation of x is what we are taking left of my square and then 2 square which is 4, we are going to write of 5 right. And then we do of like both the sufficient of x and y strong x and y right whatever my feature was and how we are getting predicted right. So, this is the x into y the first thing 2 right and then x into y the second is k. So, this is I just want to write these 2 points and these 2 points 2, 8 right. Then summation which is done at right. So, now I got like my features is what is what and my features and my target variable both some at 10 right. So, now if I am having no penalty no penalty means what lambda is having 0 value we are not taking lambda ok. So, if you are having no penalty then our leader will be what total of my x 1 x into y then 1 x square ok this is 2 right at 0 ok. At 0 what lambda which we are having as no penalty we are not like permitting the model as of now. But then we add some penalty to the denominator so that this thing gets increased and this will be getting and that is a data position. So, by example if we penalize this term what the objective was what the objective was to decrease the field of operation value to penalize right. So, now actually you know lambda here that is lambda is equal to this is the value right. If we add some value of lambda here then we are increasing what denominator. So, if the denominator is increasing this is the larger term it is getting large then over all when it divides the beta little bit. So, that is the poor idea that is the poor idea simple as a better idea. So, for example lambda is equal to 0 we are having 2 right that is nothing but what what we are having the very clear idea ok. But if we put lambda is equal to 1 it drops down to 1 what what points itself if we put lambda is equal to 5 it will drop down to 1. So, if we put lambda is equal to 0.015 that is nothing but are beta coefficient value ok. So, same intuition bigger lambda that means smaller coefficient right lambda is what penalty right. So, if I am making the penalty very much that means I am reducing my coefficient that is the poor idea of just see this one ok. If I am increasing my penalty very much in the denominator where then we are getting our coefficient has very very small values ok. Now, the thing is if I go ahead and keep on let us say for example if I go ahead and keep on increasing this value till where till where I increase that. In finite right I can make it infinite right it will go ahead and say that something divided by infinite 0. But it will never approach 0 right it is not really going to be exact 0 right. So, now I think like it will be having a very smooth shrinkage every time I will go ahead and increase the lambda value my coefficient will drop drop drop drop and that drop coefficient will be multiplied by that model. So, the entire feature weightage will drop drop drop that is the idea like we are giving a penalty in the denominator to make the beta value less that is it right. So, this is how the rich is going to work. So, first question why we are using rich like when we are using rich then we want to use rich. When we want our features to be there at least have a very low cost but that features should not be badly eliminated from the model. So, that is when we want to use rich right. How we are using rich we are making the beta square penalized ok that means if we are not having like beta absolute values then if the absolute values are there they cancel up and we will be like having a note that feature itself is gone right. So, we are penalizing the beta square values right. How we are penalizing it is just like we are increasing the denominator by adding lambda. That is what the nullity if we are increasing the denominator term that means that our denominator is getting higher then anything which is divided by the high denominator it will be going low in number right. So, the number is going to go from beta as we go ahead increase the lambda value start please as we go ahead and increase the penalty the number will go ahead and decrease for beta value. For the help we will stop is it as no? I will go. Now, who tends right two extreme tools which are available not extreme tools that is something which I have already told you before first in all this scale first on this scale first. Right. So, the thing is like we cannot compare all into that right the same thing like that is the first point that three we have already covered lecture one lecture to something that that keeps us getting an end of the game. So, we want our features to be have a single scale in last scale is something like that it should be like our feature one is having like value to either to have like to or something like that and either three is having like a period of years right. The unit should be same right that is that the ball like if you are having a filament and a meter right you will try to like if you go ahead and do something like a medical calculation or not but if you can work like you will do to a same you will do. You will you want to like one paper to have. Because we just go ahead is a scale. I am the school wearing a video positive. What is the channel? What is the other part of the school? If you are doing the school I don't know what is the time to go to the class. If you are taking a route of the school then again it will come as what? It will come much closer to the field. Right. But the thing is right it will do a route like it will take another concrete right. For example let's say if you are taking this term I will not work how to write it. If you square it will take time class. But they are not taking without a problem. If you do the impact is taking it will come around two three fours like this one. So it is why you will not take much of the object. So that is one of them. That is why we are taking part in the scaling process. By scaling you have already refused the multiplication to a lot of the reason. If you remember the maximum part of the normal order is three or something which is close from zero to one. So the corresponding from zero to one and we go ahead and make some very small number. That is the signal which is already there. So if the features are already very less important. So if close-pong solution also if there are happy features then our value is ranging closer to one. If there are very few features then they were shrinking towards you. That thing will happen for sure. But squaring those values are very complicated. Even if the value goes very high. The feature value goes very high. That is adjusted by adding the amount of kinetic energy I could implement. So higher values higher than a T. If it is like no other value I have less than a T. It is already good. So that is an iron observation. But the first thing is that we have to scale the features. We have to keep in mind that every feature should be have a like a section value. It shouldn't be like you cannot perform any kind of mathematical computation on different units. So if you are doing some calculation you will do like kilometer to kilometer. If you do not do like one kilometer divided by 1000. That is the same but one kilometer divided by one meter. And then you will write what? Kilometer or meter. It is divided by another unit only. So you have to keep in mind that skating parts should be done at very first. And that again like one tricky question. If you are doing skating right. If you remember the third session. So whatever normalization of the skating you are doing. And if you are feeling that model that should be done only on what? Training data set. Right. Test you have to keep it aside. Because if you let's say if I calculate the I have 100 students. And if I calculate the entire batch average with all those hundred students. And then I have split my what trained test. Think that my average is also having the testing 20 students which are there. They will like that will also influence my class. That is not good. So the first thing is that we go ahead and order the skate. Right. So after skating we will add the benefit of it. And the second is the goal. Finalizing the intercept that means what? Beta not is not getting penalized. We are only penalizing beta. Why beta not is not getting penalized? Any idea? So see the equation was what? Equation was simple equation was why I was equals to beta not plus beta one X one. Let's say this is the thing. So I told that I am not penalizing beta not. I am penalizing beta one. By the not penalizing beta not. It's almost almost there. And what is the regularized feature? You would have more to test the number of added content related to it. See that thing is not a coefficient for the future right. But think beta not as a benchmark. If you just if you just see the equation now, you will get confused. And understand the equation in terms of variable right. Beta not is something which is setting up base of my model. I have to predict something right. I have to. So for example, why is there? I will predict something for few things. Maybe it is a zero right. But I have to give it out somewhere. So let's say beta one has kept it as zero that that the gas feature is not right. Well, if the beta not is not having a value there, then it will go to zero right. So beta not as a benchmark right. It is not dependent on any of the features that is shared. But it acts as a benchmark. So take it as an example is I am running rapid right. So doesn't matter like if I go from an electron to four mile right. I can pay 500 rupees also. I think this 400 rupees also that is fluctuation right. That is a like sometimes heavy driving. I will go ahead and pay 500 rupees for maybe. So that there is a less traffic like early the money I will pay here. There is a thing to be something like that. But there is always a base price right. I cannot go like from an electronic city to go to one and then go. There is a base price like that's lost base price will be what. Base price will be. Minism amount of the app charges which is like the profit which is that I can go. Is clearly actually taking care right. Minimum amount of the amount that is given to a driver for one city. That is the base cost charge. Fuel which is going to be confused from 1.2 to 8 point that is the base charge. Anything that covers my entire cost from point A to point B is the base charge right. So I have to have to recover that as well. I have not recovered my cost. Then I am going like that that record is like stupid right. There will not be like any kind of a profitability on the. And if that thing is happening then I have to make sure that the price that I am going to display. Is at least the number which covers my base cost as well. Like it is not below something which is like a big benchmark right. So let's assume was from from this point. I don't see to go from there. So my like I will just end to be to the right of all each right. And then we shall be to check the commission right. This is the whole cost. So it comes out to where like 78. Let's 100 degrees over. So my price of this. Reconcil to go from that will be something which is higher. So 100. So 100 I take it as intercept anything higher from 100 will add as a profit. Right close. So that's that's the intuition we want something to predict it. Then we want our benchmark not to be disturbed and our benchmark is what. The intercept which is beta not so we don't give up an altitude to be done or will only give the. The next is the number zero right. The previous example number was. Zero this thing okay. We are not making that nice. What maybe let's say this formula. This thing is zero right. Flash. What are the many. What are the many things this right which you want us right so that's that's the same thing which is written. Land up is equal to right. We are certainly not the right means right. At the end that is like going to infinity right. The last term in the term and we're ready. And that's good. Every coefficient with 10 to zero that is a like very flat line model based model right. Something that is like no I'm used right. Zero radius we will find that model is not spread it is forming a straight line. High lines. We will find very very far away from the prediction not even close not even capturing the end of the model of the clock of the model. Low. Low bias. I have a low. Low radius and high. Model okay. So that is one of the things. Then please can you see the Gaussian distribution is what. Gaussian distribution. Gaussian resolution is how. O. That is correct but equation of the Gaussian distribution is all mean zero variance requires right. Devoted separately from the mean right so if we are having this. That is not necessarily right we are going to see that is a Gaussian distribution right but we don't add more. No more. No more. Any other features to be brought into that right. So that is not the. If you are going like the land on the very high high very high. That means every feature will be 10 to zero that means every feature which are there they are getting nearly. No advantage right. So if you are not able to be very kind of a video to the features then what is happening the model is not able to understand. What what feature is actually playing a role to predict this right as if we see a really less. Same right so now we will give them worst of the result without them that is how we should understand the one. Now moving forward with. Last is there anyone wants to take out five minutes. See we so good. Okay just. I will go ahead and read for more time. So I will read it in the comment here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.