you you you you called as climbijay to seealta level really, alpha by so it is simply a complicated of the modeling workty want to do these, like allowing of like Oops that supported pre editing is how the O-veórn którzyis atleast make some model. So anything which is not clear of the last class here, having the understanding of the variance is entirely different, everything is working fine. Cool, okay. So now we will start off with the bias variance and the idea that what is bias and what is variance and these two jumps actually be any one of you in the health, that what exactly bias means that what exactly is the variance. The variance we already know, right? What is bias? No idea, have any heard in the book? Okay, see, the whole idea is that the model has the state only on the basis of the variance on two meters, right? The third one is bias, right? So a hypothesis, why is it all, why is it something that is clear of it? But first I know that there are a lot of them. Why is it something that is, like, really clear of it? If it is what it means, what is it? I have to predict the language, right? I've seen several of them before and I have reached the state of the college and it's like 9.30, right? So, what happens? Why would I not choose that I think it is 9.30? It's not 9.30, right? So that is the best case for me, and I think it's a 9.30, right? But it's just something happening. There is a accept on the road, but there is something happening at the road, that I'm not sure that I will not know how to show, that it is something that really, really, really, really good. So, you cannot try, but even if you try and you create a test, a large step for the rest restoration and some people say that I was uncertain at least nothing but the device, right? You cannot remove that infrastructure, you would factor also. So, our model can be wrong, we want to have that voice, first that is something that you don't have to do, so, you need that type. After noise, there are movements between the device and the device, right? So, bias is something which is known as like how, my prediction is not a target, right? The distance, the gap between my prediction from the target, right? So, that is my guess and maybe this is nothing right? How is my prediction? So, for example, I do bed prediction and I evaluate the length of it. So, what are the gaps on all the bed prediction? How are those bed predictions that spread, right? So, that is the way it is. So, apart from noise, that error of any model will be based on these two circumstances only, the device and the way it is, right? So, if we try to reduce the bias and we try to reduce the variance, then we can go ahead and attack that we can do one more little long and see some of the same. Okay? That is the more right thing. Now, it can be a very good procedure, but it won't be much difficult, I can understand that bias is going to be a very good procedure. So, I have a lot of time and I have always something because there and we have to be able to have over some very few days host. So, that could be a very, very good, okay? To understand that, I could be able to take the combination of what the bias and balance mean. So, going forward with the direction will explain what it is after a bit and what is over bit is like what exactly goes to the means, right? Then, we will state the bias when you see a position in the formula, right? I will try to state when formula should identify this year. Don't, I know much of the depth, that for myself and then we also get the condition, okay? So, how will do the point of view of the relation? Right? So, point of view of the relation will see why it is what the point of view of the relation? The point is still, the answer will be the right? Then, we will see the the linker, then we will see what will the linker will present after this show, how will we fit, okay? So, yeah. So, we get starting off with these parameters, we now, first thing is like, if you want to understand what the bias is, right? So, I told you, right? It depends the model algorithm and the model prediction and the model output. It is generally governed by these two parameters, right? High bias, high bias is when we do, my model be again from my actual data, right? So, that is not a point. So, what is high bias, right? High bias is something which is called as how far I have currently from my data, right? So, for example, the student, the right is one group, right? And a place where they respect the product, that rule is applied to their own. Right? So, one group is right, and answer all the questions based on the plan comes in to the loop that we have in the horizon and it will be all in fact, right? That means all of the answer that your school is doing, it's going far, far, far away from the actual right answer, right? That's the case, in my prediction, the answer is from my actual data, right? That is how bias is, right? And the same thing, highly-vading, is like if we are having our school bed, we can summarize all the links, like, ten years of paper that UPS has set up. And yes, now, right, it's all of those ten years of paper, so they might be canceled that it is a static question, comes from those ten years of paper, that students will do a lot of that, but is there some team background questions coming into it, that we, or she might be able to take it, right? So that is one of the things, it's like, AIS is something that we learn actually from the right hand, but we do pull up the ring, right? Actually, in the end of the examination, we do that, right? Bias is how far we are, and AIS tells us how, like, I would like to tell you the connection, but we create a nest, right? That is the difference between Bias and AIS, right? So these two things will make a difference, like how many models will go into Bias, right? So this, these two things I have talked about, that my model is going to be good, going for a lot of people, people on the presentation, on the list, right? So, get what an idea, take care, now we go into this group. Now, we go into this group, I am trying to put it as a part, right? Like, me first have to understand, like, what is an add-up rate? What is an overwork rate? And what is a good fit, right? These two things that are the most part of the data, are the fitting of the data. I am the fitting needs to work, so first of all, fit, right? Just remember, if I go, I don't fit into work, but I do. For example, the first thing is add fit, right? Fit means, like, it is good too, right? It is thin, right? It is what is required, I have to write as a fit, right? So that is fit, but if I am talking about underspread, right? That needs a bit, a bit, a bit, a bit, a bit, a bit, a bit, a bit, a bit. So, the other thing is not fit, right? In our training period also, the model is very, very higher, it is very close to the trading. And if it is good, worse than the training, it will be worse with this. So, both of them, I, I don't know what is the word in this. I don't know what is the intuitive evidence, right? So, the both of the things, because my model to create this energy from my data, right? That is under 30. Like, a model is not a situation to go ahead and predict something, which is actually required. So, that is what we call an underprivileged or Puno map, right? And that, another very resource by high rise, right? Higher rise means for how far we are from the target. So, if we are doing wrong and not training data side, eventually we are going wrong in our testing data side. Then our model prediction, that whatever our model is doing, is far from our actual target, which is clearly the huge gap from my prediction to the actual number. So, that is bias, right? How far we are from our current actual position? So, bias causes under 30. Remember that way. So, bias is like how far we are from our current actual say, look? And under 30, these, do an error, which pushes us back from our actual target prediction. So, if there is a bias in the model, it is intuitive, the actual state. Right? Model is under 30, but model is not going to be in the 80,000. And that is the reason it is not performing well in the test data, but it is failing with the right key. So, that is the most failing. Ten say, look, 50 over 50. Over 50 is what? The 50 is there. But we are trying to go ahead and capture anything that is available in the data. Right? It is like my real experience. So, by example, if I take the model of 80 data side, it has some noise, some outliers, some of the things which are like very, very, suspicious. The model catches that data. And remembers that. So, what happens? Model is like very many, very many, very many cases. All of us, very many, learn all the kind of of the grading data set. It gets all the thing memorized, stored in the memory. As it's the bulk of the entire grading data set. And with the actual testing data set comes up. The model doesn't really perform that good at the first performance in the grading data set. Right? So, for example, if I give you, you have all learned graded data set just right. So, if I give you some questions on the graded data set, I would do that, this question that coming in the graded data set test or something. So, what will do you do? You go to the slides, you see the slide, you try to see whatever the slide by type one. And you try to answer all those questions. But if I try to push, let me make a different, what will you do? I will try to make a different, different, different, different, different, different, different. And then what will you do to create some things which is very, very important to you. And you will do to move me even to answer that, that question that you have answered. So, that we need to, or to test it at a rather than, like, training it, training it is good. And the rest of the areas are, right? So, that is where we call it, after less over a day. And after it's the day, our model has a high trainings, right? So, high, high is all our model, we have our trainings, all our model, we hold our training. Right? And the hardest part, which is, we are going to put it right here as a, and if we put it, the actual test is good, right? So, we will show you the high training, you know, that is a very clear, and going forward, we are having a little test in the period at the time. So, that's a sign for the model, which is going to be in a balanced position, because that is the high bias, and not having the high trainings, what is it? So, this is one of the things, high bias is like not being a regular medium. Then I am not, I am not, I am not, I am not, I am not, I am not a worker, I am a regular medium. I am not learning, I have a training, that means, I am not being a regular medium, that means, I am not getting what I am doing. So, that's why, I am not being a regular medium, I am not being a regular medium, so, I have a training, I am being a regular medium, and I am being, we saw that, I do post it directly, right? And the high is, I am being, I am just going to be a regular medium, and I need the training, I am giving to the model, it learns almost, you can have some kind of a test, but it also comes to the, there are a lot of those things, right? So, if we, for what I did something, it's my team to that day at, if I take the data, my model was so, so, because, that is very, very high, but if I just didn't even, it's not for different, it's not good, as it was very, very heavy, so that is over 30 to 90, okay. Now, these are the, we can take that, in, like, every model will fall under 30, if it is a balanced model, if it is an under-fitting model, or a over-fitting model, it's on us that we decide, like, how good that is, like, if it is going good, the numbers are not really, maybe, like, two different, then we are good, right? So, these three are the categories, where the models are falling based on their nature, like, the predictions are the nature, okay. Now, this thing, this is a new question, which is based on a model of S3, and the other part on the Y axis is L3, right? So, this new value is something, this tells us how my error, there is, when my model of S3 is L3, right? So, on the X axis is the model of S3, going on the right-hand side of the X axis, then it is on the model of S3, and, and, straight Y axis, we are having error, right? So, the first line, which is the blue line, is the Y axis, where? Y axis, where I tell you why I'm doing Y axis, where, oh, like, the first thing is, like, we are having the Y axis, where I'm going, because, what? We have that in three years, I don't want to blame, just, just an intuition, why we are getting Y axis, right? Not Y axis. Right? Yeah, see, right? So, bias is nothing but a false file, we are some actual predictions, right? So, if my actual prediction is 100, right? And I'm predicted like 80, it might be possible that my actual prediction is 100, and I'm predicted by 60, right? So, in that case, we are taking bias square, like the magnitude, which is there, that is taken care of, the direction, doesn't make sense, right? If it is positive, what we are getting, I'm going to take a gas, you know? So, that is my whole idea to take a bias square, it's not absolute value of the bias, right? So, in a two-line, you would see that, if I need to teach the model of the history, right? My model of history is the freezing water, as I'm going right, and so I do the x axis. Now, what I do is, that bias is happening, what is the reason of the order being bias? The reason of the order being biased was, that my model was not even doing good data training, because I'm not even learning anything, right? So, it was bad at the training, and it goes worse that the mistake, right? So, that's not happening. So, if I freeze my model of history, I'm supposed to see my order to learn the code, right? With that, if I try to do a push, if I'm ordered to learn more in the training case, so like it improves the training case, bias is caused to be a pathway to the training case. So, if you are freezing my model of history, then bias is bias slowly getting up, then I have a problem of slowly getting up, that is my first detection, right? The second line is the red one, which is the red is, right? So, red is the one, red is, how the red is the spot? Red is the spot, then my model learns too much, it generalizes everything, right? My first incident, the radius of the tool, when it is the chance of getting a peak peak model of history, is that the act with force, my model of it, you learn too much on the training dataset, and suddenly my other thing goes above, right? Both have different sayings, bias is not learning, it increases the power of history, it force my model to learn more on the training, it has a unique force on the training dataset, right? So, that it doesn't have the bias anymore, it is the variance, the model itself is learning too much, it is the moment of the act, training dataset, and it also gets all the values to this action, now if we complete some other complexity at that time, then my error will shoot up in bias. The third thing in the black is the total, right? So, what total means is that at some point of time, bias and variance, that make it tight, and total increasing, I like, like, at very normal complexity, it has total cost of total failure, so, right, I just told you there, the total cost height, it reaches the model complexity to the get portion, it is going in the amount, and then my total increase in the model of the specifics again shooting up, right? So, the whole idea is, what 50 points to, go ahead and have the total as the minimum, then we should have a decent complexity of the model, not too less, not too low, right? If it is too less, then my bias will shoot up, there is too high, then my variance will shoot up, right? So, the idea is to be in the gray box, those days, well, I have my total increase, that is, like, the bias goes, the way this is about, that is, the whole idea of the steeper. So, I think, if someone asks you to draw the u-cur there, you can draw it simply, right? So, the bias will go ahead and decrease, as per the increasing model of complexity, and variance will go ahead and increase, and the total is, we need very high, at the very low, complexity model, it will go at the model of complexity, like, goes towards a certain, good reach, and then, in the model of the complexity, it will be very high, then, the little, it should be alright. So, this is, how I try to record this graph, because, the Niles, here in my exam, one of the purposes, I asked, how to draw this graph only, I am not sure, like, if it is going to be on the graph, then, like, my team, this is a number of graphs, like, this is something, but the relation of what the whole model should be, and how, that, the layer, is something, if we want to be advised, maybe, now, that is out of the ice, so, this is the level, we are in. So, yeah, this is, what a classic u-cur, example, till now, anything, which is not here, we, you are clear, see, what we have to be sure, that, first thing, what, the model, if my model is making error, right, if my model is performing, if my model is going bad, what are the reasons, why my model is going bad? What were the reasons? High bias. High bias, and high bias, and there is one more reason that I stated at the very start of the lecture, that is, noise, so, those were, like, go, and high, to be considered, so, I was telling you that, so, for example, there is one portion, which is, which is something that is out of our control. Out of our control means, what, if I, doesn't matter, if I go ahead and create a very positive, model, or a very robust model, that noise is something, which is there in the real world, itself, it is impossible for a entire model to go, but, for example, let's say, for example, I start, I create from my, and I want to be sure, the scholar, by the time, so, I will see my problem, that is also a matter of order, which is there, that is given in the prediction of the time, that I can, that's how we try to be sure, here, right? So, that's an estimate that I'm having, okay, in the next 15 minutes, I will be going to be sure, but, something that can happen, is, that, that potions out of the variables, right, that, you cannot control them, that, you will, I will know, it's not available, no one knows it, like, what happens, right? That thing, which is a very uncertain piece, is always there in any kind of model. So, that is there, but, we don't know, right? That's, we do so, we don't know, we do so, we don't know, we do so, we do so, we don't know, we do so, right? But, I don't know, but, in running, in running, in running the specific order of this thing. Second position that there is need to be prepared here is like what? If there is a bias, what is the result? The model is there is a bias, what is the result? So, if there is a bias that means I will be far away from my target, that means my model is not fit, it is something you get inside, right? It is under fit, right? I am not going where that really here has been and that is what I am going on at the next position is the S we get, right? So, my model is like very, very bad. So, that is the first thing, bias, what is under fit, what about? Vain is this idea is learning too much, like the matter that I am trying to get as it is, right? The amount of this I assume 100 of critical task is where it is there at one specific topic, right? But if I push two topics a little bit around, then my model first choice, I mean the style has become the training data set. So, when my model is doing bad in the testing but it was very, very good in the training, that causes variance which is oversawing, that means my model learned everything in the training. But when I actually pushed it to the testing part, it failed and it failed back. So, that is one of the intuition, so we want to be in the beginning, right? So, now, high bias, high gain and overfitting, high density, why it is very cause whatever we, like what I was saying, these situations that are in my model to like substitute from the actual target. This things are clear, right? This thing makes sense, which is clear, okay? Sorry. It is not a question, right? So, the example is in the linear regression also, right? So, the sorted file equals to alpha, that in our x or beta x plus e is there, right? That e is noise, that e noise is due to my three factors, that one is to irretextual noise, that is very uncertain, very uncertain, a small ocean can have a break, if we have to be uncertain, right? Any model, if we just add very thin core thread, then it is sneak of the ship, that is never going to happen, right? So, that uncertainty is there, but there is more piece of uncertainty there. So, that thing is obviously, might be large, might be less, but the thing is might have been faded to this building, which would by and after it, I require a little bit of time to travel from my base to there. Then usually I have been reaching on time, like out of 10 days, 8 days I will reach about time, sometime I will get 5 minutes wait, one person will be there, that something is even available that happened. So, I will get like two balls here, right? So, that uncertainty is there, now that uncertainty, that uncertainty is there, you need to know how to do it, how to do it, right? My thing is, my thing is, I really want to sometime hold, but the thing is, like it is, some there is a fluctuation, right? So, we cannot have an actual target, we don't see that at all, that is there also, and there is more memory for it, we don't touch that, you can see that, that is there by default, right? The only thing that we want to improve is the size of the wings, we don't care about the actual scenario, like actual error, which is probing that. So, that is something which is, by nature, right? So, we cannot do anything on the wide order, we must care about the last day, we take that, then we are pushing out particles, right? So, we can't do that, as we are pretty, right? Anything else, which is not any sense? What do we get to do, right? See, model complexity, that means like how complex is my model, right? So, by the way, I told you, hi guys, was, guys was, they are doing what? It was not really, but in the training at all, right? So, it was not really very, very, very, that mean that the model is not terrible enough to take the sides, or we train the most training in the time. So, I want to increase my model complexity, we did, I add more features to it, like report for us. I add, like certain more complex, I wrote, this is more, it's because it is considered not going, like, the one really sensitive, it's a different question, I go ahead, and I add my counterparts, I go ahead, and I explain it, I go ahead, and I go ahead, and we do get more through, right? So, I am increasing the model of this, like these, and four, see how complex it is, two, like two more, more complex training data, to reduce the bias, right? So, that's what we need, like a model of this, it is the, what I can say, get the midi's of the model, right? So, if someone is studying, like, two hours, and trying, it's not getting good in the test result, so I, I force that guy to study, like, 10 hours of two hours, so that's increasing the time, right? Increasing the complexity, so that it can try and do best with the training data, so that's all the model complex needs, right? Anything else, which is not making sense, as of now? Now, this, this is the intuition, right? First, try to get intuition, like, it is, if that's, I, I feel like, this was not there, but anyways, like, if it is there, I'll, I'll, I'll, keep it, so, see, that's, what we need, like, training data itself is random, right? What does that mean? That training data is random. When we split the, it's not, like, we are taking chunk of the, but at the random, like, make all the random part of the data, it's split into, like, the training, and the testing, so it's not like, the chunk, that is taken from a particular, side of the, right? Like, just one thing, like, it is not taking it from the data, at the very first class, if you have, like, the first class, that is, that, I told that there is an R over, because it's mutual T, right? So, we do take a R over, right? We took something out of it, yeah, a sample out, right? So, like sample x, right? So, by the time, I have 1000 rows of salaries, right? I take 100, might be possible, the other 100 that I took out, will have some different values, that other, I mean, that, that, that, that took out, will have some other values. So, by the time, like, in total 100, I can take 10 samples out of the 1000. So, all those 10 samples will have different to many class, right? So, that is what this randomness is. If there is a universe, I'm taking one sample out of the universe, then those samples can have a certain set of numbers. And then, if I'm changing the other sample, which is like sample 1 is there, and then I'm, again, taking a sample 2 out of the universe, that sample 2 might have some different numbers, right? So, that is what the training data needs, right? If I'm training the effect data on one sample, and then I'm training the model of the sample 2, then that needs, like, my samples, it sets our random, that by training model itself is random, it will be a something called training sample month, and it will be a something else of training sample, right? That is what I don't know, as people. So, this is the thing, like, it's like, it is just a theoretical concept. So, for example, it is not practically possible that it can have the entire universe to train the model to every possible sample of that universe, right? That is not going to happen. Because if you see the universe, it's like 2 times, training, everything, on training model, it's a possible sample, it will require, like, fermentation combination, training is in a cross-line manner, it moves data, right? So, by example, what it is saying, that we take the F bar of x, F bar of x, F x is one prediction, right? So, we take the mean of the prediction, right? Of all the samples that we have trained on, like, whatever, like, let's do samples, let's do samples, then the mean of those prediction, those all those prediction, is my actual final prediction, which is that's what the equation is, right? So, you're someone asking that the model is there, and what is deep brain, right? So, fluidity that leads to just something called an inter-purpose pattern, more fluidity that leads to samples there, if you change the sample in one of the data, you change, right? So, by example, what happens? I have a next idea for those, I take my common rule, other, with the cellular, first, I take 100 rule. So, maximum, that, like, those 100 rules, I have the same sample, that's how much to 30, 30,000, rupees, right? So, we have had those 70, and then we are getting numbers out of those 70,000. Now, in the next 100, I take the number of the 2, that 2, that 2, that 2, that 2, that 2, that 2, that 2, that's right. So, my number is 3, right? In that case, my model prediction, that I did not change, right? So, that is one of the things, my training itself, pattern, where it is not, that's not, it will be this two-time, it depends on the training data, it will fluctuate, and then my model will be able to fluctuate. It's exactly the same thing, right? And in session three, we have learned, that is, I have to get my 30,000, that is possible prediction in my, conditional mean, right? So, that is one of the things, this is the condition, nothing but the conditional mean. We are having like all the samples. So, for example, one is hitting me, like actual value is 100, right? And for sample one, we are getting 120. For sample two, we are very tiny. For sample three, we are getting, for the prediction as 95. For sample four, we are getting a prediction as 100, right? So, from my name, all those four predictions, 90,000, and I actually, it's not like, I take the algorithm, four prediction, it's 100, it's 100, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, it's 90, then I will be seeing that, how far it is, right? So, that is the future. If the samples are there, my prediction will be, you can find out, on each of the different samples, I'll take the average of all those predictions, okay? T. I have a number. Yes. So, I suppose there is a large gradient, and that's their pulse, at least also, so, there is a wave of, like, all the satellites, for example, the theory taking away, gradient data, that is random. So, if that, by chance, that, the gradient satellite, that's random, all the satellites, is something that contains, video programming. Correct. Yes. And two, three values that are very, so, those that have become, also, yes, in video programming. But, the, like, the whole data satellite, might have, many values that are high. So, it's just a respective, like, correct. So, it's just a respective, and then, in the first, first scenario, that's the same example, like, right. So, first, you took first sample, you get 10,20, 30,000, 30,000, mediocre selfies. Right. Not mediocre selfie, but something less numbers. Right. So, for, for the other sample, you look, you got like, one, like, you got three, like, four, like, four, like, right. So, you model, like, you get something around 12,000. In the second, you get something around two lakh. Right. So, this is nothing, but having a very high values, of the model, or the entire model. So, that is the case with my, really, really, it's a selfie, this random, right. So, whatever, really, because, you feel my model, you feel it, just like that. Same thing. So, that depends on a train, it does it. That number, you can't have changed. Right. So, that is the, right. Okay. Yeah, anything else, which is not clear, just, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, again, this is one of us, like, these are these two were removed, but, let's say, okay. Try to understand it, not, but, it's much better. So, see, why, why each notation is showing you, first or the same thing. E is not, E is expectation, right. Expectation is nothing but the average, right. E is the average, okay. Why is point two? Based on our actual, that, right. And S is back sample, right. What is the sample? So, if we are telling that, this is what our actual, and F of X is what our prediction, right. On sample S, right. So, why minus F of X has this term, this term, right. I thought that the relation on sample S, right. So, this is my equation. This is my actual, actual calculation, this is my right error, right. Spire error on this actual right, what that sample is, right. This equal to what that is, like, total expected error, right. This term is my total expected error, really, it is. If there is a huge problem, just try to go ahead and break it, like, character by character, then you will make a clear picture, like what that equation is made, right. So, if you see that entire question, it might be something with this, it does a making sense, right. But try to put it in answer by character, then you will get an answer, okay. So, this is the first thing, first thing is, we are taking our actual value, right. And then we are taking E of the, all the actual value, out of that wise answer, right. So, let us say, if we are taking, right. My actual value is in the mean of the idea as a fact date, this is not the means that irreducible master, right. That is the meaning of the equation. So, we cannot change this one. This part of that, I thought this would be, that you may as a, as a, as a, this has, any model you want to take. So, this is the irreducible number. The second part is, variance, variance was, variance was, it means that the average on facts happen, on facts, it means that, then how much, it is from, how the prediction on facts happen. And prediction, but it is, each respective value, how much is it? So, this is, each respective value, this is, average of that, point, right. So, we have some practice that, but each respective value, as long as average, it is very desperate, this is my date, right. This is my bias, bias is what, how far, this is from my actual value, right. So, this is my average of, all the x, then, this is my average of, all the actual possible values, half far, the x, okay. Square, right. This is the entire equation, that means that, total error is nothing, but a sum of, noise, which is irreducible, far, variance, and bias. So, this is, the entire equation, okay. So, if you have, how, how the total error is divided, so, why is this something, we cannot go right and, go, then, variance is something, which is, there needs to be, right. And bias is something, which is, there needs to, see, how to, we do the, we do the, this thing, provides, for three parameters, we go, this is, this is, this is, this is, this is, I will give you a model, like, become close to my actual, little bit, right. And, there is, I am, opening to the cost of, I should, the model, so, there is, one derivation, this derivation, I, for, I do, wanted to add this, on this, and, but, I just need, I have, see, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have, see, please derive, right. So, what I did, I just did, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, because, I also, in, I just need to write, I continue to write, to write, I continue to write, write, minus y bar plus y bar there minus f s ok. We are just adding 1 minus and plus y there and then what we are doing y minus y bar plus y minus y bar minus f s right. Then we are doing the square of this. So, this will be becoming whole square. So, this will be what a plus b whole square. So, this will be like y minus y bar whole square plus 2 into y minus y bar into y bar minus f s plus y minus f s whole square. This term will is getting vanished. Why it is getting vanished? Because for example, it is the it is nothing but the we are subtracting it mean and then we are taking the expectation from mean. So, for example, what happens if my actual values 100 right right to understand. Then if we are predicting like 105 or maybe 105 right and then we are predicting the other part which is how much let us say any number 10 right 10 ok. So, what is the error here 5 right the other one is minus 5 and this is plus 10 right. So, how much is this 10 divided by 3 right. So, we are getting like something 3.33 right. Again if we are taking an average of the mean error out of it right. Because again we will do in a pseudo fashion like if this all these three errors are there. But if we are getting a canceling out the cellar then this term out of y minus f s will multiply to get 0 right. This is something which is y prediction by taking an average of all the prediction out there minus this f s part. So, this this term will become 0 this will get multiplied to this whole term will become 0 out of that this and this thing will be remaining which is nothing but this this whole is like if you split it if you let it proceed. Since of its interest cycle expectation of y minus y it gets cancelled. Y minus y is the same order in the mean right. Yes actually y is the mean and then you are taking the mean of the mean which is going to be same right. So, this term that is the one right that is there in the architecture right. So, what is the idea? I think it is a writing f of x 1 that I showed you like y plus minus y bar right and then we are taking minus y by 2 to the first part and then plus by 2 to the first part. So, that is how we are getting the equation and then we are just adding it based on the formula and we are getting that to be the capital right. So, in whole sentence what is the capital that we in the whole sentence it is the first idea is like you have to have to consider this part really very significant actually we want this it you can only try and reduce this part at this one that we are seeing from where it is coming right. So, the agency which is coming that your model is there really high spread it is capturing everything you want to decrease or other complexity then if it is biased then you are to increase the model model is able to do it is to its part so that it does not fluctuate much ok. So, yeah that is the core idea and the any any cloud will help then we will move ahead to the other topic. How does it think reduce and something? Any doubts? One will take a five minutes break. Take a five minutes break and then now I will fast take. So, you will get to know each other. A linear regression model will go over just this. Any doubts? Now just have a look ok. Before actually starting it I want you to understand one analogy which is already with every like random text looks there just make sure that the screen is shared now. That thing is nothing but is called as a this is for not for the infrastructure should go under the time biased and being in this tier it might go away. So, let us say I wind you down I think there are a lot of things I want to do. on the right road. What will be this center that I will be on, good sign, right? So, if my modeling terms, it will be my first big actual prediction, right? So, what I am trying to understand is this good, okay? So, there is one thing, right? So, the first thing thing you do is, so the first thing you do is like we show darks on the road, right? And what are the expectations that are each and every dark, whatever I am doing, that is right? So, that is my expectation, right? But now, you can only show that, I show my five of the dots, that is here. All the dots I get, right? What are the things that are being organized? Not straight, but all the dots are far from the dots, right? So, what are the things that are being organized? So, what are the things that are being organized? Not straight, but all the dots are far from the actual center value prediction, right? Highly I. So, this is the last example of highly I. That my model is under-frient, it is not even my any single prediction is close to the dark, right? I have made 10 predictions and all of them are far from the actual dark, right? This is what is highly I. So, first time you need to understand first thing, right? After this I do not need to be forget my highly I. This is a very good example, so it is fine, it is 3 textbook. So, right? So, this is like I have tried to push 10 charts on the road, that is what I am trying to do a prediction and all of them are landing very, very far away from the dark, right? So, the first time I have done this is the high-byes, right? That means this is what? Overfit or underfit? Underfit, right? This is my high-byes, sorry for my high-by time, right? So, this is my underfit, right? Underfit means like whatever prediction I am doing, it is not going close enough for the dark, right? My model is like super light, super light is not getting there, where it will get there. The other thing, right? It is too late, wait, it is having a high-byes, but what is the variance? Variance is low, that means variance, what was variance spread on my actual point? Like what I am trying to achieve from all of my 10 points, right? So, my variance is no means that there is a prediction, first and foremost, when it is wrong, and they are all clutter at the same point of time that is calling as less variance, that means it is too long, right? Now, the other thing, right? This thing, the other drawing, what can we have? This is high-byes, low-byes. So, out of high-byes, low-byes, we can have four places, right? Second part will be what? High-byes, high variance, right? So, that means this thing. Here, no? High-byes, high variance is each one, I am doing my dots, high-byes, all of my dots, are far from the center, right? High-byes, low-byes, they are not all of the dots, are not clutter at the single portion, low-byes, high variance, okay? Both of them are high. What we call this? It is miserable model, right? We cannot call anything, like both of the things are high, so it is not over-fitting, it is kind of under-fitting model, but it is worst, worst than under-fitting, like, a geese, what I am saying, one goes, what are the similar side of under-fitting, at least? Here, we have zero-time, at least all of my objects are planting at that position, okay? There, first thing is, we don't even know that where my target, I started, I chose, I will show that it will far from the target, where it is going to land at maybe all of the dark, right? All of the more it is going to land, but at the first, we have certain intuition that my, all the prediction that I am making is, it is like that at one place and those whole bunch is far from the dark, if I am going to get closer, I will try to bring the whole bunch, here, I do something, if this point comes here, this one is there, this one, this one, there is no such thing, right? Let me look, I will need that, this one, right? Second is high bias and low variance, right? That, that, that can be happen, check, and the third thing will be like what? Low bias. Low bias and high variance, right? This is one, this is over-fitting, right? Low bias and high variance, right? That needs, low bias means what? We are little bit, little bit close to the target. Something like this. We are shooting our vision and our vision is like, over-over-bid our, we cover it at our group, right? So that needs, some of the visions went in a direction that will landed on us, right? But, over on what happened like we are covering at our group, right? So that is the case with where we call this as over-fitting. Right? This is the case with where we call it as over-fitting. That means what? Fires is low, so I am getting low. But the variance is high. That means like, we don't tell that we gave certain position and fit from us, right? We are throwing our target at the straighter output, right? So, again, our objective is not to hit the target. Our objective is to fill the target. Try and understand those two terms. If my objective is to hit the bulls eye, then if I am throwing ten shots, I will try to make my ten shots landed at the perfect target, right? That is the objective of hitting the bulls eye. But if my objective is not to hit the bulls eye, then my objective is to cover the target. And I try to just cover it randomly. In mid-off, I will cover the target. But some of my targets will land at close to the target. That is the distinction, right? The fourth part is when we have seen two high-bass, then this is low variance, low bias. Low bias, low variance is low. Low bias, that means... Correct. So, this is what it is. Here, like very scattered all over the place, but still there are low bias, that means all over the place, we are getting close to my bulls eye. And it is really close to my actual prediction target. Very less spread, but this is the exact scenario that everyone wants to achieve, right? Apart from over-fit and utter-fit. This is the scenario that we want our model to be, or it is a balanced statement. Right? Now, taking the target and go to the easier path, how we are going to predict how the very high-bass, how it is getting from my variance. Right? This... Remember this is an example. This is... This remember this, this is nothing but an analogy to make sure that you have a good understanding of high-bass. High-bass. Like how we actually make it. Okay? So, a good example, if you go right in that book, like realize that I see that I was a good woman, I still don't remember that book, but I just have these old information, some kind of an analogy or first place, that someone showed me that cover book, like a real lizard or a real cat, and we have a book, some kind of an analogy, this I took it to. So, a good way to understand, if you understand these four charts, I like have a piece of mind that you guys have, and at the start of what is high-bass, you put it confused in the cover book, okay? Good, good to go. Okay, good. Okay. Now, this is where... What is this? What means which one actually? What is the reduced? So, the first thing, like we saw that our actual model deviates long, these three topics, like these three these are code these are the little bit of silver coins, that can be made based on the first thing that arises, as it's where the book is made, it's where they're made a little bit of a negative boat, so that they don't catch a in the unknown direction. So, the most significant, the reduced one is which is reduced, a lot of our work, no, but that is coming from the nature itself, right? We cannot do many modifications on dot-off rate, that is something that we don't know by this, that we can have at any time, okay? So, that thing like is uncertain, this is uncertain, it's never going to go right? Now, second thing, which is bias, how much the prediction still stops different samples, right? So, how is the spread of my prediction as we saw in the last episode? Is it reducible? Yes, it is reducible. How? By decreasing the model of the acidity, which is using the simple model, adding more data, that adding more data means what? If my model is getting very good at adding data, right? I need some more complex kind of a data example to keep read, like some variety of data, not a simple data, some variety of data, I try to produce more data to the model, so it does go to net S-com, right? And then, instantly model is there, this is coming into the other, like, like, this is coming from the model, right? Then, bias is where, how far the average prediction, like how far we are somewhere on the, is it reducible? Yes. To introduce, like, more expressive models, more complex models, more expressive models, better features, better data, then we try to push the model to certain extent, that way, like predicts that. Okay. So, let's talk about the way. There are two questions. So, the first one is, like, if a FS fits the training data perfectly, every time, what happens to the varies? Hi bias. Yeah. Yeah. I make a, like, it's, but not the good of making it, I mean, it's high bias. So, it's just, it's learning, but it's learning too much. The forming good on training data is not high bias. No, like, it's, it is learning too much. Yeah. It's overfitting, yeah, overfitting. Right. So, see, high bias is what, high bias is, like, you know, bad at training and testing both. Right. Okay. So, it is performing good at training data, so, it is going worse in the, it will go worse in the test. So, that is, the variance is high. Right. So, the first question, answer that. Second, if the presence of flat line every time, what happens to bias and variance? Variance is low, bias is high. If it is a flat line every time, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, there's no rich of, okay, so that is the other answer. And this thing, the rich of the seven. Right. The first question is what? The variance is maximum. And the second is variance is zero. But the bias is large. The flat line, the answer is that. Right. And yeah, we cannot measure bias, variance directly, that is something which is coming into the proving and assembling model in the next lectures. So, here is one of the things, which is following movement regression. And, So, if we want to have learned linearization as of now, now they are moving forward to co-operationalization, co-operationalization is not what we are getting, right. So, if we take something like y is equals to mx plus c, then it is like y is equals to 2, like let us say y is equals to beta 1x1, we get to x1x2, we get to x3 square or something like that x4 cube. So, the degree is high, then it is going to go by the lower rotation. But what does x1 square, x2 square, x3 square means, right. So, is it a feature square or something? No, right. It is something which is derived from our existing feature only. So, for example, we are just changing the shape of the feature. Let us say I give a new one example that I have done for that, I can increase it x5, 1 degree by y is equal to 2 degree. If I increase x5 to y is equal to 4, if I increase x5 to 3, y is equal to 5, then the relationship is not being here, right. So, in that case we see some features which represents the same thing, in that square as well. So, that is what we want to achieve. That is why we do not see any features in this. x1x2, x2, x3, I think we are not teaching in this. They are all existing features, but we are not teaching in such a way that the position itself makes more sense. That is it. That is the answer. Okay. And now, in here, we are also talking about the non-linear terms of x, but in here we are also talking about, as you were asking, right. So, what I am trying to say, we have different features, okay. x1x2, x2, x3, whatever is there. We have done each other's in the environment, right. The condition which is beta 1, beta 1x1x2, beta 3x2x2 or something like that. So, suppose beta that is usually are linear parameters, equation will be curved, right. Because linear is not getting to solve our problem, both complex way, right. So, we have the curve equation, but the parameters will be leaving, that is the whole point, right, of the polynomial relation. And whatever like x1x2 here, trying to achieve is nothing but we are creating features on top of our existing features, right. To make our model more complex, it is such a way that it captures the problem, right. So, that is the same description. For example, it is very time, and the model is in the problem, it is not going to work. We want to do something like the model that happens in the model again, right. Goals in a point that it captures the spread of the data, right. So, linear regression is not a thing everywhere, the heart of the assumption of the linear regression. So, there the first thing was linearity. linearity has been reached, the linear regression is not going to work. So, for the first thing, for linear regression to be working is like our model should be here. If it is not even, then we use some polynomial regression, then we need some different functions, right. So, that is the polynomial regression not so. Here again, any norms here, okay. Now, this is the thing, like, just see that how complex the need, like, increases in the practicality. What is the, e must be divided by, not divided by itself, or factorial different equation, which is the factor. So, we, like, for example, degree is free, right. Degree of the polynomial is one. Degree of the polynomial is super, it is power, highest power, right. So, for example, it is x1, x1, x2, x3, both multiplied, three multiplied, then that is also degree 3, right. It is not something with the x3, it is always having degree 3, right. If we come on x1, x2, x3, then that means x1, and you add x2, and you add x3, all this, we are getting multiplied, that is also degree 3, right. So, if my polynomial is not given, we are going to feature 5, then there will be 56 polynomials, which will be created, like, if I am increasing the model of the residue, then it will explode very very fast. How 56 is getting calculated? So, we are factorial, right. We are having a degree D, D, the polynomial degree, and D and this time. So, this time, D plus D is not A, right. And D is not A, right. So, what, what the notation of the earlier basis, like, we are having D plus D, D, D value was how much? How much was that? D was 5, and D was 3, that was it, right. So, if we write it, the first term becomes 8, sorry, this shouldn't be there. The first term becomes 8, and the second term is 3, right. So, this is nothing but 8 factorial divided by 3 factorial, right. And this C will be like 8 factorial divided by 5 factorial into 3 factorial, right. So, now it will be going into 8 into 7 into 6, I can write it in that way, into 5 factorial I can write it directly, right. And then 5 factorial into the bottom, 3 factorial is there, 5 factorial, 5 factorial is getting cancelled out, then at the top it is 8, 8 into 7 into 6 divided by 3 into 2 into 1. Then it is how much? 36, 8, 7, 56 is the pros. Simple factorial calculation, aware, no, like, not, not getting into that. Like, this is how I am just trying to say that if I, let's say if my P, R, 6 goes to 5, that means I P, will do it more model of X, D, more T, like more features to that model, right. And then if I do a T, R, 2 which is the dimension of the degree of the polynomial equation to 5 as well. Then my number of features, the finding all those degree will be, like, a number of columns will be getting more accurate. So, that is like how my complexity will explode the model in this fashion. So, the first example was what? Just to get an idea, I have given like OPQ, right. So, for example, then in the I K D X of X transpose inverse, then we we thought that if P, R, 6, that by 2, then the time complexity will be by 1 for 3, or 2 for 3, whatever, that. The same, I will be by P plus D by D, right. That is how far our model will get, like, more data will get into the picture, we will be the model of X, D by C P. Same calculation, I think, much, right. And sorry sir. There is the statement, nothing is scaling becomes necessary because like, if we are having 1 parameter of 10,000 minute, our number 1 below, we will be rate time. Like, if it is normally, if it is a scaling this much, then without receiving the feature, we will have to be beyond our expectation, right. So, that is how the scaling by means of 4. That is why we have learned a statement for. These are different things that we have learned first before going into ACHA VAR. So, these are the three different things, right. So, that if you don't scale the data, there will give some more, like high numerical of exceptional values. Even if, like, you know the scale, it is still high, going from the dimension and the features. And like, we somehow didn't scale the feature like that that time will be due of it. So, this is why at the future stage to become right, we should look at the starting of the model basically. We want to all the units to be standardized. It is not like getting the smartphone also get a little bit to be used to come also, we are getting rise in IMA also. It should be standardized right. So, that the model will not explode. Now, this thing, this is the learning curve by yes, where should the initial or if you do it, but done. So, this is the learning curve. This is the core idea next is the moment to see that how the learning curve will be exciting. So, for example, if I just zoom it a bit. So, this is the vertical range and this is my guess curve and being on a three-plated curve. Right. Right on my guess curve and three-plated curve is my trader. This is my guess as like whatever, like how much training data I am providing to the model. So, this is the main high class that means like what? We are far far away from that. So, if we are giving the training time time, right, then our test period is declining. Training another is increasing, right. Test period is declining for first part. That's the more what's happening. It goes as more and more training data, like more and more increasing all model complexity. Then my test period will go ahead and the client will see why this is not moving below the training bar. Testing error is not going below the training bar. It goes right because if you train around 3DSM, massive lower end of the workshop, right. But it goes go ahead in a way that it will go and like fall below the training data. But as you see the training size is going to increase in the model of the city and the bias is going to be, look, from high it is going to get low bias, right. High radius is like what? We are increasing the training size, right. We are giving more and more and more additional values, right. So, this is the training size doesn't means that we are having, always we are increasing model of this. It is increasing model of this. It is one time but in day ends, what was happening? My day ends was going below one specific training data, right. My model means, could I come specific training data? So, it could like more distinguished examples, right. If I have like more additional training data, it is actually like more described different time with us. And so, see if I could do the in a proper situation that it doesn't sound so only as it can work with your own strategy. So, how that is also my test period, the training in the testing and ability time, right. My training data almost goes on going into a stagnant fashion, you won't either increase or either increase. So, that could be high bias and high variance. So, this is the first thing that high bias both curves from virtue of high error, more data will help get a better model, right. So, they will just convert, right. And high bias is what we have in this training data. So, this will not surpass the level here, right. It will match the maximum work per person. So, after that giving more and more data, it is not going to help, right. At this point, it is going to help. From there, till there, till there, it goes to the required reason, right. We are going to get a latest conversion from the training data to testing data. Again, if I keep on giving the training, more training data to the high bias model, it is not going to help it. Maximum it will go to the next approach. High rate is another persistent gap, more even help or simplify or regularizer. Okay, if there is a really high persistent gap, this before and then they will get it to this level, once it can, I just never really go over to help. Right. So, my training and testing data has a correlation. Okay. I won. So, for example, if I am like having a score of 90 percent if I unit test and then I have a went for an examination, I scored like 90 percent. In examination, that is fine. That was the expectation that I was scoring 90 percent in test form or right, like unit test also. Finally, I will not score my right. So, that is okay. I have to reduce that gap to such an extent that it matches my training, right. At least my training. If it is going beyond that training, that is also good, one or two percent. But at least, which would be there, I don't go and do an underfit or overfit for the corner. This is the intuition of the algorithm. Like after a certain period of time, doesn't matter if the training data is a piece or a few. It only helps to one certain extent that people go ahead and approach, right. For my bias and I think it's okay. Then this is one of the question. So, my order is scored 99 percent of training and 70 percent of test, right. And just diagnosis, what is the case and give me to the suggestion how to fix it. Just read that, I can be right. 99 percent on test, 99 percent on training and 70 percent on test. High variance. That means what? Underfit or overfitting? Overfitting, correct. Then if there is, if it is overfitting, if it is a case of high variance, right. Then in case of overfitting, in case of high variance, my order is learning very, very high in my training. That means it is memorizing the entire training data set. For that case, what should be the choice? Correct. Correct. We want to be, read the model, more specific to a bit so that it doesn't, it doesn't capture the entire, everything in the training data set doesn't capture the noise. At the same time, we can also, the second solution is you can give more diverse training data set to the model. Like we can give more diverse encounters so that, like the model is more robust. Two solutions. Okay. So that is what I think is term of the decomposition is large. Variance is large, right. And what's Schring's end? Model complexity, getting a little bit low and more diverse introduction of the training data set will help our model to go and go in a situation that it doesn't learn from every simple data one that is very, very, very common. Okay. So that is the answer all, right. Then like bias varies, polynomial, I'll drop in the, there, you can just go ahead and learn it, but this will be having this only like this. This term only, right. The calculation I showed that in the same way that it will create a feature and you'll see the additional features happening this formula. Then you'll see like if it is learning on all the data set, my ready. So the first thing, the very first thing happened, the ready first node that I ran, the very first class, that was nothing but a global thing happened. That is my model is pretty, pretty, pretty, pretty, very common. Quality, that's a very simple idea, over. Right. And if it is like doing bad on both, the idea that it doesn't, as simple as I do, no problem. Just remember one time like going forward after two classes or three classes. There will be a chance at least it happened to me. I'm not sure about you guys. There will be a chance that when I will tell you that low areas and high bias, then you bias will be in a situation that you think for at least two, three minutes to answer it. It is the choosing, right. It is the choosing situation to answer like what was the moment I saw my high bias at that time. So try to just understand that data analogy. Once you understand that data analogy, you will be a pictorial representation in your mind that you will able to report it faster. Otherwise, you will be always getting confused in the terminology that what low-dialing, high bias means, what is the end of the day means, what is the overpricing means. That will be faded, that will go and fade after two, three classes. So that, like just remember the data analogy and step to that. Once you remember that our analogy everything else is self-examinated. So let's stick to that one. Nothing else. No definitions and all. Now, just a second, this interview, great question. So, I will interview great questions honestly, but just try to answer it. What was the three terms of the decomposition? We see the total error in the course into three terms. Noise. Noise, variance and bias. So bias is why we are taking bias square to cancel out the dynamics, right. So if it is plus 10 minus 10, then like ultimately, if you calculate the total error, it will be zero. But it is not like that. The probability is that we are going over to catch the at one point and we are doing the forecasting at one point. So the probability error is nothing but 10 and 10 square to this hundred. So this is the three terms of the revolution that this comes, this comes, thus more data reduced. More data. So more data will reduce the variance, right. So more data is what. There is a model in over additional information to the norm. It is what we need to calculate the rate of data. Because by 4 I lost data to the model. So that it doesn't lose the existing model. So, I think the case we are going to see here is this. Now, the point is that in the middle iteration and why it is a linear fashion effect. What you will notice is what is the equation. If I see, then they can say, we come up, we come up as one. We come up as two, because we have to export as five x six. Then what is the degree of the correlation? How many say? No, it is not so. See, you are in a restaurant that I think that x 1 x 2 is 6. I am talking about the degree of the simple algebra. x 1 x 2 x 2 x 4. We all have 25 and 4. 4 degrees, right. So, for example, if I go to the data x 1, here I have x 2, 4 degrees, and here I have x 2, 4 degrees, and here I have x 2, 4 degrees. That is okay. So, my polynomial equation, that means my x 1, x 2, x 3. They are in square fashion, they are in polynomial fashion, right. But the data on data is still there. They are multiplied, they are divided by two each and every polynomial does. So, that equation, the relation equation gets polynomial, but the parameter is still a linear model. The neta 1, neta 1, neta 2, neta 2, x 1 x 2 x 3, 4, right. x 1 x 2 x 3 is multiplied by x 2, but we are multiplied by two, only one code each. We are divided by something, right. I will write it, so that it makes more clear. So, for example, what I am trying to say, if y is there, then in linearization, what was that? Beta 1, beta naught, beta 1, x 1, right. In polynomial, it is like beta naught plus beta 1, x 1 plus beta 2, x 2, x 3. So, what is the degree of this? 2, 2, right. So, here what I am trying to say, that this thing is having a degree 2, right. But still, we are multiplying every single term, which is there in the regression with one single variable. So, this thing is making maintainable linearity, rather than this, this is going into a polynomial fashion. That is what the equation gets, right. So, if someone asks you the polynomialization is there, yeah, the graph is low, but the diagonal is, that is what we have written. Then, for paper system training, training and relation that lies on the radius. Because, training training, training will value down. It is not going to be training only, biased, right. So, if it is not going to be training only to form a course in the present state, so it is biased, far, far, far, far, well done. So, see, why I am trying to do it in this line, right. In actual, you have to do as this, this is 10, so on. And that one of the time, you have to give that answer, right. Even if you are thinking that, okay, training, that is, like, I have to keep that in mind, to do that, right. Otherwise, if you are choosing your mind, say, it is not like you don't know, right. You will know, if you think and record something, like, right, on paper, you will get to know that, like, this one, vice, this one, made it. But it is good that you have that, like, since when you are mind, so if someone asks you just the word, you can, like, don't worry about it. Said, when more data will not help. Learning curve, we saw there, when high bias was there, then I added more and more and more data. There are three models of, basically, it will converge to the training error also. Like, training and testing will converge at one point, after that, adding more data will not help. It will not do anything to the model models, right. So, this is the, like, the whole part, like, if someone asks the body, there is someone, ask in that question, then don't just say that bias, bias, the variance is the advantage is also happening on twice. So, even if you think, like, so for example, it is, I created a model, it is, I mean, zero bias and zero variance. With that model, we, like, too much profit, we did not give any kind of a, I will get that on you do this. So, my idea is, like, my error is dependent on these three questions, and they are in this linear fashion model. Anything in the model is determined by these three fashion model, we are not familiar with this. This is considered, these two, is what we have discussed today. Now, we know that what bias and variance are, what causes bias and variance, what is the model called, if it is a bias model, if it is a variance driven model. That thing, because we saw that our training and testing data are there, what is the remedy of it? And what are the, how do we know that the number of differences will give you the next class, right? So, in next class, I guess, what is that? The regularization across variation, right? So, this is coming, my only variance, and these algorithms will be added in the next class, maybe on Saturday, this is the next class, right? So, we will start from this, after that, I think it is gaming on something. No, after that is the logistic regression, and then the care. So, I think these two are important, after that, it will be mostly to the previous algorithm. So, half of the, let's have the ability entirely to be based, right? So, yeah, that was, I guess, any kind of a doubt on bias and variance. So, if you want to have my solution, then, two are the number by anything, or, so, we typically, line by line by bias, maybe, just write and treat a log on time, and that means, that is more than, if we are the question just, if we can get some data, and try to understand, what you have, will get an idea, okay? You have that energy, the thing, just open that sheet, I will give you the access there, open that sheet and mark that idea. So, comment or something. You