Okay, so in the last class, we saw a leaf over your corners right here, we will be doing the pose along with few topics, right, which we are going to cover. So there were few names that I mentioned including the DNS or different type of crowding and other items, I think so too. So previous try looking then we were going to try exploring what is DNS or the different type of crowding in all of them. What are different type of devices? No, no one. Okay, so what you are supposed to do from this classes, we have been to a certain topics now and what we are supposed to do is I have added a book already in your syllabus. So you have to read through all those topics that we are going to cover in the class from that book. I will also add certain more resources in every single chapter in every single session that you do. I will add some external videos, some blogs, some write ups. So you are supposed to go through that as well. Is that clear? Okay. So is it clear with what is internet? Internet is nothing but a network of various different types of networks, right. For example, we discussed in the last class that you might be having your own laptop, you might be having your own printer, you might be having your own iPhone connected to your own device, right. So there might be let's say a device which is responsible for providing you the internet and all of these devices are connected with this. This could be a router, this could be a model. And similarly, there are other different smaller networks. For example, there is a network that we are using right now in this room. A lot of these devices that all the shrewd are using, all of them are connected with the same Wi-Fi network. So all of them also are connected with one single device or one single higher level network. So all of these are individual networks which exist. Now internet is nothing but a connection of these individual networks. So you can assume internet as a two-level structure. Is it visible now? Okay. So there are these devices that are connected to each other using some network facilitating devices. And then there are, as we discussed in the last class, there are certain servers which exist. For example, if you want to open Amazon, then you are going to make a request with the network. So there is one server which might be get somewhere else and somewhere different type of network. If you want to open Google, then you are going to play a connection with Google server, which again is presented at a completely different geographical location in a completely different network. So they are also somehow connected to this one single entity called the internet. So you can assume the internet as a two-leared system where we have these type of connections which are, you can say, which the connections are directly joining the devices. And then there is a deeper network where these routers are connected to each other. So I asked a question in the last class that I probably might be using let's say A or 10 as my service provider. Someone else is using G. Someone in US would be using a completely different network provider. They are still able to connect with the same internet. They are still able to open the same website. They are still able to communicate with each other through this internet. How exactly is that facility? So this is what is happening behind the scene. There is a deeper network cloud where all of these devices, all of these routers are connected to. Initially you might be connected with a small device kept in your home provided by your service provider. Then that makes your connection to their further routers. So probably if you are using air tech, it is possible that air tech is bringing these connections to one single location. And then from there, they are being connected with the larger internet. And inside this, this code network, there are nothing but routers connected with each of the routing detracting. Ensuring that each and every request goes to the pre-decided destination. Is that making sense? So now in this structure, all of these devices that are connected, it can be your laptop, it can be any device that you are using as a user, your smart phone, your smart mobile or mobile phone. Or it could be a server which is hosting a website or hosting a service. All of these in network are called hosts. Each and every device that is connected to the internet, whether it is a server of a company like Amazon, Google or whether it is your individual device, all of these are told as hosts. And hosts in network are of two types. Whether two different types of hosts, you can have either a client that is going to request or creator that is going to reach out to a server and request for some resource or some data and you are going to have servers which are going to provide the data to the client. And the network ensures that this client server communication, regardless of the distance between them, regardless of the number of devices placed in between them. This client server communication happens with, does that make sense? Now this is a question which you should be having at this moment. Is that how exactly did it evolve? All of you are, so you already had the privilege of being born in the era that internet was already good. But internet hasn't happened suddenly. It has gone through a process of evolution. So what exactly brought this entire network which is connecting each and every single person present on the earth. So if they have a device, if they have an ISP, they can connect with each and every other person present on the globe. How exactly this entire thing came into picture? What do you think could be the starting point? And R for network is that? R for network is first computer network. So let's take it from the first principles. What we need to do is going forward in this course and in all the other courses and sure that you are not forcefully remembering any names or dates. You need to understand these reasons. You need to understand these logic. So what could have brought internet into this? Earlier when programming or teller, a lot of things at that point of time also started connecting automatically. A lot of computation were automated and a lot of data was being generated. So what happened was since machines at that time they did not have that much of capacity to store the data, they had to move the data for different machines. Earlier that data moment used to be physical image. Which means once your heart is completely full, then you have to remove the heart. You have to take it to a different location. You have to copy the data there. Then you bring back that heart. Or you install a new heart. So real data moment used to be completely physical image. Then people thought of ways to make it automated to reduce the manual work that is involved. So then they came up with the idea of connecting devices using cables or using ways so that the data can be transferred directly from one location to another location. And in fact the bigger problem there was that if a machine is holding a lot of data or if you have many machines holding a lot of data, something like a data center, then you need to lower down the temperature in order to improve their performance. Because a lot of heat is going to be generated. That is the reason why a lot of data centers, in fact all the data centers, they had very core temperature setup. That is why we have to waste a lot of energy in order to maintain these data centers. So those extreme conditions, a programmer cannot be present. You cannot have a programmer present inside of let's say minus 1 or 0 degree temperature zone and write codes. So programming is going to help a lot of different ways. The data is present at different ways. Which creates some gap. Which means when you write a program, then you send the program, then that program will be executed here and then if there are bugs, you come back, if you deviate, you fix those bugs, you come back here again. So this whole process is going to increase the overall time in the telegraphic code. So this requirement of joining these two things so that the data can be accessed without being in that location. That came into pieces. So initially a lot of universities tried this because in universities, students were working on a lot of projects, a lot of data was being generated. So they tried a lot of things and finally they figured out that it's a simple problem. You just need a connection between two devices and you can transfer data from one device to another device. The only problem is the size of the data. The size of the data is large. Then that creates a lot of problem because if this gets dropped, if there is an issue in the network or if some of it gets a flip because in the end this is just an electrical file, so operations can be made. So that creates a lot of problem and while one specific data is being sent, you cannot send any other form of data. This line will be blocked. So initially they tried something very similar to what happens in the full line network. If you have to connect someone using a line line, one entire line is blocked for that connection. That is something that used to happen. So in order to ensure that these problems are resolved, what are the problems? First since we are transferring a lot of data it was. This is going to take a lot of time. At the same time you cannot transfer any other form of data. If this data is lost or if network is lost or if there is some operation in the data, you need to reset the entire thing again. So researchers came up with the idea of packet switching. Packet switching means that instead of sending the entire data it was, we are going to divide this into multiple smaller chunks and we can send all of these outputs. So all of these packets, they can be sent out. The advantage of packet switching is that first thing you can now send different types of data at the same time. Now because in this case, if this line is done, you cannot send another data packet. However, if you are doing packet switching, which means you are breaking down the larger chunk of data into smaller packets, then these packets, they can be sent, they don't need to be sent together. You can send some packets of type 1 data, some other packets of type 2 data and so on. So basically what you are doing is you are mixing them up and they created a system so that the receiver is able to identify what exactly should be the sequencing of these packets. The receiver is able to combine all the relevant packets together and in the end get the actual data in the holistically. That means this was done in 60s. When was Internet made available to the public? When was it available for general public? Early 90s, somewhere around 90, 90s. But this happened in 60s. So who exactly was using it? Different research institutes, right? So universities were using different scientific research institutes were using it. Yours military was using it. And all of these were small networks which were working in silos. So you can assume there was a network inside one single university where they were trying to solve somewhere in USA. There was another similar network thing going on in France. There was another similar thing going on somewhere in England. And all of them were trying to solve similar problems of data transfer across the network. So in 60s people were able to figure out that if you want to transfer the data we need something called as packet switching where we will break it down into smaller packet and we will program it in a way so that the receiver is able to combine all of them in the correct sequence and then make sense out of it. But the problem was that all of these were individual networks. It was not an Internet. It was this computer network working in silos. Then during the cold war, after the cold war, Russia was able to sign there for satellite. What is the meaning of Russia sending a satellite and un-mining satellite in this space? What does it mean? It means surveillance of their enemies, who are their enemies? So they now have to do something in order to get an edge. So then they came up so this actually created a kind of fear that if Russia is going ahead in this missile war in the cold war. Similarly at the same time US discovered that Cuba has some very good time of missiles, right, definitely provided by Russia, which have USA and their brains. Which means if Russia wants they have proper surveillance system, they have proper missile system, they can destroy us. So what should they do? They should prepare for the worst personnel. So US military also had these type of individual networks, which were able to communicate with each other internally, but they were not able to communicate across these networks. So then they came up with what they think would have been the problem of these networking and communicating with each other. Distance is a benefit problem. So the earlier communication used to take place on radio waves, but if someone bonds your country then that system can be destroyed. You can have waves which travel at lower altitude, but their range is going to be very small. So how to solve this problem? In order to solve this problem, one solution could be. That you do not try to send the data directly to other networks. Instead you create a chain, you create links. So you can have multiple devices in the place in between and then your data transmits through these smaller paths and this way you can take the data from one network to another network. But if any of these devices is destroyed, then the entire network is gone. So what do we need in order to ensure that this is durable? We need more such devices. We need a deeper network. So currently it's a sparse network, but if you make it deep, which means if you have, let's say more devices in order to facilitate this type of communication, then you are going to ensure that even if it's a sum of these devices are destroyed. There is a likelihood that one path still exists which can transmute data. Now the problem is that here you have different type of hardware. You have different type of software. We use different applications which are running here, different type of operating systems. Similarly here you have different type of devices. Different processors, different type of operating systems, different type of applications being used and being created. So how do these systems which are completely alien to each other pass on the data to each other and read the data set by the other system? We need a set of rules which have to be followed and understood by each of these networks. And when we say each of these networks that also means each of the devices which are present inside the network. Does that mean sense of it? If you define a set of rules that whenever the data has to be transmitted, this the data has to be transmitted in this specific form. You need to specify the destination exactly here. You need to specify the route if that is possible exactly here. And this detail should be specified here. If you design that protocol which is followed by every system and is also understood by every other system, then this communication will be possible. So US military came up with a protocol called the network communication protocol. Somewhere in early 70s or 69 to 70s and they were able to transmit the data from one network to another network using a protocol that they had created. But the problem with this protocol was that it was not reliable. Data was being sent. When it was not guaranteed, they had no acknowledgement that the data has been received there. They did not know whether the data that has been received there is correct or not. Because in the end you are transferring these packets. In the end these links are nothing but copper whites which are going to transfer electrical signals. So you don't know whether the data that you have signed has actually been received at the other network or have you received something else? Or have you not received anything at all? So there was a person working in the research lab of US military called Vincent surf. He came up with a protocol called the TCP protocol. So he used two things. He said that okay, we need to ensure this is a highly critical data. This is the data of the US military. Could be probably the codes which are used to run or file the missiles or it could be the tariff where they have to fire the missiles. Or it could be a key of some type of encryption that they have created. It would be a very critical data. So reliability is paramount. Even if the speed is slightly slower, that is okay. Reliability has to be there. We need to ensure that the data has reached at the other end and correct data has reached it. So they use two things. They use the protocol they created a protocol called the TCP which we are going to learn in detail in future classes. And they also use another protocol called the internet protocol or IP. TCP ensures the reliability. TCP ensures that the data reaches their indie correct form, the desired form. And IP tells us or IP decides what is the exact route that the data should be taking in order to reach the final destination. And this is the same IP which we are still using. This is the same TCP protocol which we are still using whenever we are communicating with the world. This man whose name was Vincent surf is also known as the father of the internet because of the creation of TCP and IP protocol. Once this was created, now there was a way of transferring the data reliably from one network to another network. And once the data reaches the other network then those servers they were already able to communicate with each other. Does that make sense? Yes or no? So TCP IP, this was earlier used only by the US military. And then later on it was released to certain universities and then other universities, research labs. They also joined in this network. They also were connected and then there was a way of sharing the data. But what essentially was this data? And these were the spy side, static files. So this data, it was not seen as the type of applications or websites that we use right now. The internet has changed entirely. At this point of time you can simply assume that this data was nothing but messages which earlier could be sent over facts over letters or static files. Which would have some critical information. That's it. These are not websites. These are not applications using which you can do something through which you can interact with someone. So later on in server, how many of you are aware of what is server? Who? Huh? Server server. C-L. Yes, where will the particle accelerator? The Higgs boson particle experiment. It was carried out in a thesis like in server. So in server, there was a scientist and even before that, so we will come to sign later. Now, when these networks, when these systems were communicating with each other, the IEPs, since this was something that was designed by Vincent server designed by the US military, there was no notion of website names or URLs because websites did not exist at that point of time. They were only transferring the data. We had certain data which was supposed to be transferred to one of the machines there. So they knew exactly in which machine they have to transfer the data. So they were aware of what is the IEP address of that machine. They used to have the IEP addresses ready. So they used to specify, have you ever used the ping command? Yes, what does it do? It's like, send some package. So you can write it ping google.com or you can simply write the IEP address of google.com. It will do the exact same thing. So they used to do something very similar. They used to simply make a connection with an IEP address of it, but because that is how this protocol was designed. If you want to communicate, you need to know what is the IEP address. And there were no websites. Later on, people realized that memorizing these many IEP addresses is a very hard task. We cannot do it. Right now, we have limited number of systems, but very soon, as more and more universities were added to this network, the number of systems, they grew exponentially. So remembering the IEP addresses of maintaining their list, that became a challenge. So then people came up with the idea of DNS. DNS was, this was invented somewhere in 80s. 83, 84. So in the mid 80s, people had the idea of DNS where they gave a hierarchical URL or hierarchical name, something.com, something.us, something.edu. So it has multiple layers, every single layer, whatever you write it after the dot, it has a specific meaning. We learned what exactly is the meaning of all of these domain or some tools. But this idea came somewhere in mid 80s. So we don't really need to remember the IEP addresses. So somewhere we'll be able to figure it out. We can provide a level of abstraction to the user. There is an understanding, what is abstraction? Remastered study, YouTube object, Internet programming. What is abstraction? So not just the complicated details, but all the type of details. You hide the details. You only reveal what the user needs to know. If the needs should know both, they can definitely explore and understand. But they should not be asked to explore in order to use your product. For example, in object-oriented programming, you build functions in order to provide abstraction. Have all of you used hashmark? Yes. How exactly a hashmark functions in can be? How many of you are away from there? What is the time for complexity of finding something in a hashmark? Over for me. If you have an array, and you want to check whether something is present there or not, what is the time for complexity? Order of an array. You have to check each and every way. If we sort the array, the login, because then you can apply it by using it. And that is the best we can do. How exactly a hashmark is not able to provide your order one time complexity, which is practically constant. This does not depend on the size of the number of numbers you have. It can tell you in a constant time whether your data is present there or not. Without knowing that, you are able to use it. And you have solved a lot of problems. There you have leveraged the order one time complexity, which hashmark provides. This is abstraction. There is no that the implementation of hashmark has changed multiple times over the period of time. So in Java 7, it was implemented in a different way. In Java 8, it is implemented enough. It is implemented in a different way. But the users of hashmark, they do not need to worry about. They do not need to worry about what is the internal implementation. They must know it. You all must know it. You all must be in a position to implement your own hashmark. But if you want to be a user of hashmark, even if you do not know the implementation, you can still use it. That is abstraction. So here, users earlier were supposed to know more detail. Now we have hidden those details. Doesn't mean that IP address is completely hidden and no one can see. You can still see IP address of each and every website. Each and every machine that you are connected. But you don't need to do. Does that mean sense? So DNS brought that level of abstraction. However, still, even by this point of time, there were no websites. There were just machines talking to each other. There were systems on networks speaking with each other. So this DNS earlier were used for addressing these systems or addressing specific machines which I kept there. In order to get some data request for data or transfer data. But then, in certain sense, a lot of research was happening, a lot of research papers were being published. A scientist had an idea that why don't we have a system where we can browse through all these research papers, browse through the entire research work, which is probably present physically at multiple different locations, using this internet. If all of these systems are connected, I really, the research which is being done in this university should be accessible to this university as well. I should be able to read all the research papers without physically traveling to that location. So for this, he created a set of things. He created something to present things on the system so that so, Indian, the data that is being transferred here is nothing but bits file. Now, those bits can be shown to you in the form of images, in the form of videos, in the form of documents, in the form of audio files. Then, various different type of things out of these bits which are traveling through these files. So first, you need a way to represent these bits in the correct form. So that the user can go through them so that the user can see them in their skin. So he created something known as a hypertext markup language or HTML. Then, in order to ensure that people are able to access the correct research paper or correct the resource, we need a resource locator. If you have that resource locator, then they will be able to reach out to specific resource without going through your element data. So he created something known as URIT. And then, in order to ensure that there is a way through which someone requesting for a resource can connect with these type of hosts which are meant to serve this data. Which means service, we need a protocol. We already have a protocol, TCPIP is a protocol. But this is not the protocol which can solve this problem. Right now, the problem is that there is a client and there is a server. Client wants to get some data from the server. And then server is supposed to return some data. While the TCP is still going to be there, TCP decides how these packets should be broken and how these packets should be routed. But what should be there in these packets? That also has to be decided now. Because only the content is going to set. What type of resource is going to be written or if there is any resource that has to be returned from the server or not? Is that making sense? So what should be the way so that this client asks for that specific resource? That and how does this server response back with the resource? What should be the response of the resources there? What should be the response of the resources not present or not accessible by the specific client? So we need an application layer protocol here. Something that will then eventually use a TCP layer, TCP and IP layer in order to sign and receive the packets. But what should be the content of that packet? That has to be decided. So he created something known as HTTP, which is a protocol for requesting things from the server and then getting the response back from the server. All of this together is known as the word and white web. Now also have these three things. You can create websites. You can create resources present in the internet. You can create your own website. You can get connected with the internet. People will be able to use that website. That makes sense. So this happened somewhere in late 80s. So 89, 90s. That was the time when the world wide web came into picture. And words the world wide web was there. Then people realized that now it's going to make immense use. It's going to be very, very useful for the general public. Because a lot of information is now going to be available in the form of these HTML pages. I will even by this time these HTML pages were supposed to be standing. By the way, this guy also done one more thing. So you had the pages. You had the URL. You had the protocol. But you need one very important thing in order to view these pages. In order to do this communication using the HTTP protocol. What is that? Browser. You need an application which will use this protocol to reach out to a server. So this guy, single person who created all of this plus a web browser. And then the concept of browser also came into picture. Does that make sense to all of you? Yes or no? So this is a brief time. And after this, we have seen exponential level of evaluation in the internet. We had from static web pages, we had dynamic web pages. Then suddenly we had the text giants coming into picture. We had Google, we had Amazon. And then Google and Amazon started creating a lot of data. And then in order to store the data, we started facing different type of problems. So a lot of solutions which are earlier existed. They started filling and then new technology started coming into picture. You might have heard about no SQL databases. Yes. Came up as a solution to a problem with Google and Amazon were facing. You might have heard about messaging queues. Came up as a solution for the problems which again these text giants are facing. So a lot of data was generated. A lot of people started using internet and a lot of problems and a lot of solutions. Z here. Yes or no? So initially we started with TCP IP as an internal protocol. But as I said this protocol only defines how the packets are going to be distributed or how these large data is going to be broken down into smaller packets. And then how these packets will be routed. That's all what this ECPI design then came HTTP which creates a protocol which creates a set of rules which someone can follow. If they want to communicate with a server. So there is a specific form in which you are going to request the data. Will the very specific form and the English server is going to provide you the data. Internally that data will be transferred using these protocols. Is that making sense? So these are two technologies that we have now imagine the complexity. So many systems, so many people. Every person can have their own hard way. Every person has their own machines. There are various different types of companies manufacturing systems, manufacturing laptops, manufacturing CPUs. All of them can have their own type of ports. For example, earlier five, six years back, every single phone used to have a different type of charge. There were some charges which were thick in size, some charges which were very small. Then iPhone has lightning cable. We can only charge iPhone which cannot be used with any other phone. And then there was a standardization that was done. Government said that we need to move away from all different types of charges. We need to have one single C type we have become. We should charge, we should be able to charge the laptop, we should be able to charge all type of phones. And currently if you see majority of the phones can be charged using that C type of cable. So whether it's an Android charger or an iOS charger, it doesn't matter. The operating system has nothing, no role to play with. Whether it is a Samsung phone or Nokia phone or Apple phone, it doesn't matter. You can take any charger and you can charge all type of phones because of standardization. If you think in the context of internet there are so many pieces which are creating the internet. There is a hardware. So there is going to be a CPU which is going to have its own core. It could be a single core or a core core CPU. Then it's going to have its own RAM, it's going to have its own hardware. All of these are different hardware 80s. And over and top of these hardware entities it's going to have a software which runs all the programs inside this. What is that software for? The operating system. So you can have different types of CPUs, you can have different CPUs, many types of different companies following different conventions, having different architectures, internet. You can have different types of operating systems running different types of scheduling algorithms, running different types of parallel processing. Then you are going to have ports and through these ports you are going to connect this hardware with the internet. This port, so now depending on this type of wire, you can have a different type of port. It could be a USB port, it could be a C type USB port, it could be a completely different, it could be an HDMI port. In the end you can use, you have to use it for data transfer. Every single can make and design their own port. Which means that all the cables are not going to fit in every single CPU. For different machines you need different type of cables. For a way in the same thing. So it is possible that in order to connect an Apple laptop, you need a different type of cable. In order to connect an Apple, you need a different type of cable. Which is going to create a chaos. And then these cables are also in present in various different varieties. You can have a copper wire, you can have an optical wire which has light in it carrying these signals. You can have a copper wire which is encapsulated, you can have a single thick copper wire. So you can have 100 different types of cables just to transfer the data. And then you have devices to facilitate or propagate these signals. You are router, you are model. Switches, hubs, ridges. All of these have different functionalities. All of these need a port, need a connection. So if different manufacturers are building them, they can go ahead in their own way. They can have their own design. They can have their own protocols. If your machine feels to follow their protocol, you would be able to connect with the internet. So if that happens, if there is an independence given to all the manufacturers to go ahead and create their own designs, create their own protocols. Then this internet will not exist. We will have small bunch of networks following the same type of protocols or having the same type of hardware connected to each other. But we won't be having each and every device connected to this larger internet. That is the reason why we have a standardization of this communication which is going to happen over the internet. Every single manufacturer, every single network engineer, every single software engineer has to follow these conventions. Otherwise you won't be able to connect with the internet. There is one single set of standardization. There is a set of process which has been created. You can definitely create your own own process. You can skip some of these steps. You can add a few more steps. But the base lining has to remain the same. Which means that you need to provide an abstraction to the next part. Which means the manufacturers of CPU. They cannot decide what type of code is it going to be. Whichever type of code is connected there. They need to provide the data in a way so that all type of codes are even to accept it. And the wires, they are going to sign a contract that they are going to receive the data in a very specific format. They are going to transmit the data in a very specific format. They don't care about what type of hardware is on the other side. What type of hardware is there on the other side? So there is going to be a layer of abstraction that we are going to implement. Different manufacturers can implement this part on their own. But there is a contract that they will have to follow before they hand it over to the next layer in the network. So we have a model called the OSI model. Which has seven layers in it. What are these seven layers? So these layers have been created considering the journey of the data in mind. So from where exactly is the data initiated? What is the source of the data? Suppose I want to open Google.com. What is the source of the data? Is it Google server? Is it my computer? We are simply typing Google.com in deep browser. What will happen when we type Google.com? We need to create connection with the server. Which means in order to create the connection. Creating the connection means we need to make the server aware about our presence. And we are requesting something. So that server can send the data. How will the server send the data? The server needs to know our IP address. So we will have to send our IP address. We will have to send certain request parameters. For example, if you are writing a comment in Instagram and when you press submit, that comment goes as the data to the Instagram servers. And then the service process that data and then send you a response back. That response says that your comment has been added successfully. So the source of data is this client, which is either requesting or performing certain action using some service provided by the server. Is that making sense? And inside this client, there was a specific application. It could be the browser. It could be in Instagram. It could be WhatsApp. It could be any application that you are using at that point of time. Which is responsible for creation of the data. So the first layer in this, not the first layer, it's actually the seventh layer. If we go from top to down, then the first layer is going to be the application layer. Application layer simply means. So this corresponds to the application that you are using in your system in order to create connection with the server. Is that making sense? Now, after the application, so there is an application, you write something, you press enter. That data has to be transferred. So as of now, application is present only here. It's not present in this wire. It's not present here. The application is present. It's downloaded in your own device. It's running here. But the moment you take an action, then this request has to be filled. And before it is triggered, you need to perform certain more actions on the data. What type of actions would you want to perform on the data? Suppose you are writing a moment or let's say you are uploading a reel. So you are uploading a reel on Instagram. So this reel itself is the data that has to be sent into the Instagram server. What do you want to happen with this reel so that it can be transmitted over this cable? Convert it into bits. Which is correct. We definitely need to convert it into bits. But if you think carefully, it is already present in bits. Every type of data is already in a thing but bits. Okay, let me take a different example. Let's say you want to transfer some amount of money to your friends account. So you are here using night banking. You want to transfer, let's say, some 10,000 rupees to your friends account. You are going to create a connection with the bank server. And then the bank is going to create a connection with the friends account. So while this transaction is taking place, what do you think must happen? Get post, we will come to all of those things but on a higher, if there is a critical thing, if there is a data which is critical, your account's data is being downloaded. If you are opening your bank account, then the entire account details is first being downloaded here. You are able to see your current balance, you are able to see all your past conditions. Then you are making another transaction. This is a critical data. If it does leak, then your account security would be sacrificed. So what should happen in Biti? The data should be encrypted. The data has to be encrypted in a way so that no one is able to re-rate. If you are present in there, let's say a reading package in Biti. So encryption has to take place or sometimes encoding also has to take place. For example, here in this case, you are using a video. Now video in India is going to be just a bit, but depending on the format of the video, we will know how much, what are bits, what thing in the exact video. If it is an MOV file, then the decoding is going to be different. If it is an MP45, decoding is going to be different. Similarly, when it comes to images, for us, we are able to see things as images, colors, right. But in the end, there are many copies. And depending on what is the format of the image, the actual decoding is going to take place. A GP image will be decoding in a different GP. But in itself, it is nothing but an algorithm, right. We have been seeing so many images that we now take it for granted. But every format that you see, every file format is an algorithm in itself to compress the data. You have so many things in that image, so much of detail. A lot of detail, probably is in the limit. Human brain is an aim to process the detail. Even if you remove it, they won't be any visible change in the image. So, GP is a algorithm which reduces the size of the image by removing all of that unnecessary detail. And it encodes the data. So, that large image which has a lot of data can be stored in a small size. Similarly, you have PNG which is the different type of encoding scheme. You have PDF which is different type of encoding scheme. You have MOV which is for videos. So, depending on what type of data is being transferred, you need to encode or decode data. Something as simple as JSON object, something as simple as your Java object also has to encode or decode. For example, if you have a user class in your program, then user class might be having a name attribute and email attribute, right. You do user.name, you get name, you do user.name, you get name. The moment it moves out of your system, will anyone be able to recognize the class? The classes exist only inside this server inside that specific code, inside that Java code that is valid. There is no meeting of classes outside that code. This wire does not understand classes or objects. The client it does not understand classes or objects. Java script does not understand your Java classes which are running in the backend. Is that making sense? So, this data has to be presented in the correct way. Here it might be a Java class, but before it is being sent, it has to be converted to something which declines with the browser, which is a string. It can simply create a string. So, you take the user object, right. You might be having let's say this user object which has some name, then you have some email and so on. You take this user object, you convert it to a string. So, this entire thing, whatever attributes you want to send to the client, you are going to create a large string out of it. And that string will be converted to by me and that string will be sent to the laptop or your browser, which will then decode it as a JSON object. Your JavaScript code has absolutely no visibility of what is going on in the backend, whether it is a Java class, whether it is a Python class, whether it is Ruby class. It only gets strings which can be be serialized into JSON objects. So, this presentation of data, in what form do we need to receive the data, in what form the data has to be sent, encoding and decoding, serialization and decilization that becomes the next step. Is that making sense? First, there is an application which triggers the request. Then, whatever data has to be sent, there is specific format. There is a presentation where you will have to follow for the specific type of data. If it is a image, where encoding would be required, if it is an object, serialization would be required, if it is a string, e-serialization would be required. So, the next layer in this model is something that handles this thing, which is known as the presentation layer. Once you know how to present the data, then you can talk about these type of problems, right? Which is security. So, encryption and decryption also becomes the part of this. Then, if you are speaking with the server, then you might be having a session going on, right? So, for how long that session has to continue, if it is a banking server, for how long that session should continue, and then that session should continue. If it is a request, and if there is some lag in the network, or if the network breaks, how many times should the network retry the request? What should be that specific mechanism? All of that becomes the part of the third layer, which is the session layer. Are these three layers clear? Yes or no? Now, as I mentioned, this is not the first layer. This is the seventh layer, this is the sixth layer, and this is the fifth in this model. Because we are looking at this model from the physical entities perspective. We are looking from this wires perspective. So, this is going to be our first layer, and this is going to be the seventh. We are looking at it in this way. So, application, then you decide what type of data is going to be there. Then you have the session information. After all of these things are decided, after all of these things are executed, then you have the data. And now you want to make smaller segments of this data. This is where PCP is going to come into picture. Divide larger chunk of data into smaller chunks. And transfer it to the correct service. So, now, inside the Google server, how many services might be running? Any guesses? Are you guys studying with mononil and microservice? What is mononil? What is microservice? So, mononil means that you write your entire software as one single executable file. You might be following object oriented programming. You might be following all these other principles. You might have written the code in the best possible way. You might be having thousands of classes internally. Thousands of classes, thousands of interfaces, many packages. But in the end, when you compile it, it comes out to be one single executable, which will execute in a single server. That is what we mean by mononil. If you have ever built any application that has been written in a mononil thread. Highly likely that it has been written in a mononil thread. Where you implement this and everything, in the end you build it, you get one executable file which you run in a server in one single server. You can definitely run the same file in multiple servers as by it. But they all are directly exact same. On the other hand, we have something known as microservice. Microservice means this system in itself is so large that it is very hard to manage all of its parts together as one single large code base. So for example, in Amazon, Amazon's search in itself is a very complicated system to be built. Think of the use case. There are millions of products. You type something you get relevant results in fractions of second. That itself is a highly highly complicated project to be built. Then you have the Amazon card system. Where you add things in the card, you check out, you have to ensure that consistency is maintained. If this, that product is not in your inventory, you cannot allow the user to edit to your card. However, the same is not true for search. You get sure things in this search user which do not exist in the inventory or which have already been sold out. So different systems have different requirements. Different systems inside Amazon have different scaling needs. For example, how many of you regularly search in Amazon? You raise your hands. If let's say you open Amazon once in a while, you search for products. Sometimes you buy, sometimes you don't buy. You raise your hands. Now, out of all the people who browse through products in Amazon, hardly 25 to 30%, conversing to someone who is going to pay for any product, and actually order. Out of those who are buying things, hardly 1% are going to reach out to the customer service. So while there are going to be billions of requests per second in the search system, there are going to be few hundreds of probably 10 or 20 requests in the customer care system. So different system, different parts of the system have different scaling requirements. You don't really need to scale the customer care support system. You might want to scale it with respect to the human capacity and the type of people that you are providing for the hand. But you don't need to scale the infrastructure. On the other hand, if you don't scale search, it's going to crash for sure. So in such cases, for very large organizations, what we do is we break down these services and we have different code bases, different executable files, interacting with each other through API codes. So users are going to let's say someone wants to search something, they reach out to the search service. The responses will be given only by the search service. Then if they want to add something to card, then the request is supposed to go to the card service. If they are reaching out to the customer care support, the request supposed to go to the customer care service. So that if we need more servers here, we can add them without having any impact in the other services. Or if let's say there are some bug fixes that you are doing, some deployments that you are doing in one of the service that does not have any impact in any of the other services. That is the full one. So now if these many services are running inside the Amazon ecosystem, how does your request knows in which service or with which of these system it has to make the connection? Which server is responsible for serving the resource that your client is looking for? You don't know that. So for that, there is a concept of ports. So in the next layer, which is the fourth layer, which is called the transport layer. There are two things which are going to happen. First, you are going to segment the data into smaller chunks so that they can now be routed easily through the network. Second, you are also going to add a port number with every single chunk that you create. You are going to add some extra information. That information is the port number where this package should land in the destination server. How do we know which server? We know the port number because that will now be added by this transport layer. Transport layer will ensure that we are adding the correct port number. But port only specifies the service. It doesn't specify the destination server. There can be thousands of servers or run into exact same port. So how do we know in which server do we need to go or with which server we have to create this connection? Using the IP address. The IP address is what is uniquely identifying that one single server in the entire internet. And that is what the next layer does. Next layer is simply going to add the IP address. And that is why it is also called the network layer. You know the port number. You have segmented the data. But now you are going to add another layer of information. You will add the IP address which will help with the routing. Is that making sense? That's all right. So you add IP address then in the next layer. As of now, by the way. The packet has not reached your network. Packet has reached your router. But it has not left your router yet. Once the IP address has been added, then it is going to be sent out of the router. But from your router, there is actually the packet should be sent. Because your router could be connected to multiple entities. If this is the router, it is connected to multiple entities. So where exactly should we route? How do we know what is going to be the shortest path? How do we know which path is actually going to take us to the destination server? It is possible that all the paths do not take us to the destination server. So how do we know what is the exact path? Using? Using the packet address. We are going to use the destination link. So we have the destination link. This router has a limited number of entities connected with it. It has limited number of ports. After analyzing the IP address itself, if you have observed, it is a sequence of numbers. It is a concatenated using a dog operator. So IP address is nothing but a 32-bit long number. And what we do is, in order to represent it, we create four sets of eight-bit long numbers. From 0 to 250. All of these, so IP address is also configured in a hierarchical way. All of these four parts that we have, they give us a very specific information about what path deep packet should we take from your router. And how exactly that happens? We are going to learn in the future classes when we discuss sub-netting and IP address. But right now, you are simply assuming that the IP address is going to be instrumental in order to decide that the router should pass this packet towards this path, this path or this path. So, a router lose that it has to pass the packet to this path. But which device in that path, router needs the address of that device as well. That is where Mac address comes into picture. I mean, if you are aware of what is Mac address, what is it? Address of the device. But we already have IP address, which is address of the device in the network. Mac address is only right. Mac address. So, we are going to use two different types of addresses. One is the IP address, the other is Mac address. So, in your laptops, there is going to be a chip installed, which enables it to get connected with the internet, read the data, understand the data or send the data over the internet. That chip, that card that you have the network card, it has an address, which is written there, which is bird-day, Pi-Ting, manufacturing. That is the Mac address. So, in most of the cases, Mac address is going to be computer, which means you cannot change it. I will tell you, you can talk a little bit, you can ensure that you are not showing your correct Mac address. Some operating systems provide that functionality to maintain your own security. But Mac address is something which by design is supposed to be computer. On the other hand, IP address is a mutable thing. If you change your network, you will be a slightly different IP address. If you see your own IP addresses, you will see that all of the IP addresses are calling one single type of pattern. All of them have this part, or probably this part, which is exactly the same. The only difference that you will see is in the last part. You can check your IP address, your computer, your PSI IP address. That is because the IP address is assigned by the network, by the local network. You move out of this, or you connect with your phone's network, you will see a different idea. So, you can assume that IP address is like your own address, which can be changed. Earlier, your address used to be in your home town. Now, if you want to get a parcel, receive your address as we changed, it is the Unible. You know when you join a company, your address will change again. But your avatar number, that is when you will be in your data. That is also an identifier. It is also uniquely identifying you. But it is going to reveal, if you take a door, by the way, you are moved in the chat room. So, both of them are important. While the IP address is important to understand, in which network do we need to move this packet? What should be the correct path? The main address is also important to decide what is the next physical device, where we have to pass on this packet. So, if let us say, this is your computer, and you are sending this through your router. And now there is another router. This router is going to have. When this packet started from here, it already has the IP address of the destination. If you are creating a connection with Amazon, you already have the Amazon IP address, you have passed it from DNS or you have passed it from your own local cache. But you do not know what is the MAC address of this. Or you do not know what is going to be the sequence of MAC addresses or sequence of devices through which this packet is going to be run. So, what the Internet is going to do is what this entire system is going to do is, it is going to first pass your packet to the router you are connected with. This router, after analyzing the IP address, knows that out of all the paths, which are coming out of it, which path is going to take to the destination server. And then it is going to transfer into that specific MAC address. So, MAC address tells you that this is going to be the next hall. This is a network hall. Then, once it reaches this router, this router is going to do the same thing. You can analyze the IP address if you will then figure out what is the path where the packet should be sent in order to reduce the overboard value. Which path takes me to this destination. And then based on that, it will figure out what should be the next MAC address, what should be the next device where I should route this packet. So, that next MAC address in this case is going to be this. So, this becomes another network hall. So, while the network layer adds the IP address, which is giving you the end address of the destination, you still don't know what is the next device where the packet has to be routed. So, that one single hall is what we are going to get in the next layer, which is the data link layer. You get the MAC address of the next device. If so, what is going to happen is this packet is going to get a MAC address of the next device. Once it reaches here, that will be scrapped off. And the MAC address of the next device is going to be added and then it will further forward. Is that making sense? So, once data link has been crossed, what all things have been done, we had some data which could be JSON, which could be a video, which could be an audio, which could be a video, which could be an image. We encoded the data, if needed, we encrusted the data. Then we shared out whether something has to be done with the session, we hear what is the session start time and all of these things are done. All of these things essentially will be done in your browser itself. Modern day browsers are able to do all three things. In fact, all three things are not actually required at every single point of time. So, sometimes it is possible that the session is skipped because there is no session management which has to be done. Or there is no encoding, encoding that has to be done. You are simply transmitting bits. So, in that case, all these layers can also be skipped. But all of this is going to happen in your browser. Then you are going to segment the data in the smaller packets. You are going to add the port number. And once the port number is added, you move to the next layer, which means you are going to add an IP address, which is the IP address of destination. And the source as well. There will be both the IP addresses. Source as well as destination because once your packet reaches here, this server needs to know the IP address of the server who it has to simply respond back. So, both the IP addresses are going to be added. And then after that, the MAC address of the next device will be added. And now our data is ready to be transmuted. Which means now finally, it will go to the physical layer, which can be a proper wire or which can be a optical cable or which can be a electromagnetic signal if you are using a bi-fi. Say in which case it is not literally physical, but light is also physical. So, that is why physical layer. And this is the first layer. This base is straight. In the physical layer, the data is going to be in the form of bits or you can see. We don't know what is there in the data. In fact, in none of these layers, we know what exactly is the data. If I take an example. So, in the application layer, you need as we discussed, we need a protocol. Which will tell us what should be the format in which we are requesting the data. What is the format in which the server is going to return as the data. So, there are a bunch of protocols which exist only in the application layer. For example, we have HTTP and what is? What is the HTTP? File transfer protocol. So, why you have the hypertext transfer protocol for loading the websites. For loading the data that we are going to request, you also have specific type of protocol for downloading or uploading files. Similarly, you have must-goose secure versions of both HTTP, so HTTPs. And secure file transfer protocol or HTTPs. Then whenever you are sending an email, the email communication is not running through any of these protocols. That has its own protocol. Because it is solving a very specific problem. When email is always going to follow one simple type of structure. So, we have simple mail transfer protocol. Then we have something known as telnet. So, all of these protocols are the application layer protocols, which means they are going to simply define that the data is also on application layers. So, all of these are going to define in what format the data has to be sent. And what format the data has to be received from this server. They don't talk about how the data is going to be restricted. They don't talk about how the data has to be segmented. They don't talk about where the data is going to go. They don't talk about what is the next device where the data should be sent. So, all of these protocols are agnostic of any of the things that we discussed in this part. We only talk about format in which the data should be sent and format in which the data should be received. That's it. If you are getting a specific code from the server. If you are getting a 200, that means it, you are required for success. If you are getting a 404, that means the resource that you have requested does not exist. If you are getting a 429, that means. Too many requests, rate limit has been reached. If you are getting anything that starts from 500, 501. There is some error in this. So, every single response code has a meaning. And it is very, very difficult. So, as an application developer, you need to understand all of these things. If you are using any of these protocols. Then in the presentation layer, there are going to be certain type of protocols for serialization, decilization, encoding, decoding, some mechanism, some protocols exist, which are used for implementing the data or decrypting the data. So, those protocols are going to be used in this layer. Then you have the session layer, which is going to have its own set of protocols. But all of these are yet being managed in your process. So, by this point, the data that we have, which initially could have been, let's say, image or a simple JSON, now you have added some extra information over. What is that information? What is the format of these protocols? The header of these protocols has now been added. So, for example, if it is an HTTP request, you need to specify what type of request is it? Is it a get request? Is it a post request, which is going to make some changes in the data available in this other? Is it a post request? So, type of request has to be specified. What is the type of data that you are sending, whether it is JSON object, whether it is an image, whether it is some other different type of content? So, that type of object also, and what are the signs of the data? The overall size, that will also be added as an extra data over whatever you were sending. So, initially, if let's say this was your initial packet, the initial data that you wanted to send. So, let's say you wanted to upload a leak. So, you had this video file, which you wanted to share. Now, there is an extra information, which is the HTTP header, which has been added. Please remember the example that we look in the last class. If RIF has to send a letter to RITANGE, he needs to write it down, he needs to present it in the correct way, in a way so that RITANGE understands it. In a way, which has been usually agreed upon by both of them, they cannot use their own mother. Because they might not be able to understand each other's mother. So, they need to speak one single language, which has to be followed in this message. And then some address. So, first thing that RIF had done was adding an envelope. So, you can assume that this is an envelope. You have specificity, basic details. This will be opened at the last. Once this is done, this unit, after you have added the presentation layer detail, let's assume that there is some encoding detail also has been added. Then you have added some session detail as well. After all of these details have been added, this is no result data protocol unit. Or BPU. Okay. After the first three years. Now, after this, in the next layer, what are we supposed to do? What do we job of the transport layer? We have a very large chunk of data. You cannot send one single video entirely as a whole code network. You have to break it down into smaller segments. So, the next layer is going to break this data down into smaller segments. And how exactly this segmentation is going to be done that depends on what algorithm your router is using it. It could be based on bit ranges. For example, let's say the first 400 bits are going to be part of the first packet. Next 400 bits are going to be part of the next packet and so on. The majority of the times that is the case. And since you have now segmented it into multiple segments. What do we need in order to ensure that the correct sequencing is maintained when the data is being read? We need some type of number or sequencing or indexes. So that we know whether all the packets have been received or not. Whether we have been received or are they being opened in the correct sequence or sequencing is very important. Otherwise your wheel would become something else if you chase the sequence. So, with all of these data segments. Some more information is going to be added. Now you can see that there already is some extra information added in this data. There is an extra key we added type of request, type of data, type of data. All of that is already there. Then social information, encoding, encryption, all of that information is already there. And then that entire data is segmented into multiple variants. Now, over every single model, a sequence is going to be added. So, now we are going to add another extra layer of information which is going to be the sequence number. And along with sequence number, you are also supposed to add the what? Port number of the service where this data is supposed to reach. That makes sense. So, now the size of the data has increased. Earlier it was just your data. Then the application layer protocol, headels are added. And now there is more data overhead because you have added the sequence number, the port number and some more detail. Because in this transport layer, so in application layer, there are a bunch of protocols which exist. Based on what application you want to build, you can select a protocol. Or you can come up with your own protocol as well. In the transport layer, there are two different types of protocols which are used very widely. One of them is the TCP protocol. What is the benefit of TCP? Why did we have TCP wired in the creative TCP for a military network? For reliability. Right? So, transport layer, any protocol of transport layer is going to bring down the data to segments. But TCP ensures that the connection is reliable. TCP ensures two things. First, that you know whether the data has reached there or not. Another data has reached the destination of all. You are going to know about that. Second, it will be guaranteed that correct data has reached there. If there are certain abrasions in the data, that will be figured out that it will be fixed. That is what TCP guarantees. But do we need these guarantees every single day? Earlier in military days, it was needed. In a lot of other cases also, that guarantee is needed. But do we need it every single time, for every use case? But if it is available, why should we not use it? Okay. So, as I told you earlier in the last session, now going for quality, every single solution that we discuss is going to have a new set of problems, which it is going to bring with it. TCP is solving the problem of reliability. It ensures that your data reaches there. It ensures that any abrasions in the data are figured out, they are correct. But that mechanism adds extra latency, doing that takes more time. Sometimes you would want to prioritize latency instead of reliability. For example, if you are playing with A, if it is a multi-clear game, it is a shooting game. All of the frame gets dropped. One frame getting dropped means a change of very small flicker, which probably will not even be noticed by the plate. But if you are using TCP, it is going to wait. It is going to seem whether that packet arrives or not. Which is going to create extra lag, a lag of one second. And probably you will simply lose a life in that game. So, in these types of scenario, if you are, let's say, having a video call, if the quality drops for a while. But the connection is continued. That is better than the video preferring for the highest quality images. So, sometimes we would want to have a low latency system. Rather than reliability, if some of the packets are getting dropped, it is OK. If 90% of the packets are reaching, our job is built out. Because those packets are so small that even if they are getting dropped, even if there is some small abrasion, then those changes will not be detected in that specific context. So, that is why we have one more protocol, which is user data ground protocol or UDP. So, depending on the application, either we are going to use TCP or we are going to use UDP. Majority of the cases we are going to use TCP. Because we will need reliability. And the latency identity is not that much. So, we will have to see the trade-offs. And depending on whatever is your use case, you will even use this or this. So, now all of these data packets, they have two extra information, minimum two extra information, which is home number and sequence. In the next layer, all of these data packets will be added one more set of information, which is IP address. So, now we are going to have IP of the source and IP of destination. Both of them are now going to be part of all the data packets that you have. Why do we need IP address in all the data packets? If you have a sequencing, you can simply add it in the first packet. And then the packet decides where exactly we have to go. Why do we need to add it to all the packets? Correct. As we discussed earlier, we are going to have packet switching, which means one packet of this data from this information. Another packet from some other information, some other data, another packet from any other information. And it is not necessary that all of these packets are taking the exact same route. All of the packets may be different route. Eventually all of them had to reach the same destination, where the sequencing will help us reorganize them into the correct data. So, that is a every single data packet. Now needs an IP address of source as well as destination. The web makes sense. Yes or no? Once this is done, what do we do in the data layer? In the data link layer? So, we are not going to use the entire path. We will never have the disability of the entire path. We will only get to know what is the next physical device, where this specific packet has to be sent. So, in the data link layer, on all of these packets that we have, we are going to add the MAC address of the next device. So, now we are going to add another layer of information. Are we able to relate this with the example that we discussed in the last class? Every single layer that you have, once your letter starts trembling, it goes to a post office. They apply the end goal information. Let's say through a truck, the truck will add their own information. That it will travel through a daily system, they will add their own information. That it goes to a post office. They are their own information. So, what we are doing in every step is, we are continuously encapsulating the actual data that we have. In every single step, if you see, we started from the actual data. We encapsulated it inside some protocol. Then we further segmented it and then we kept on encapsulating the data as a larger and larger and larger. Every new encapsulation is adding a new layer of information, which is going to help this data reach the final destination in the shortest path. Does that make sense? So, once all of this is done, now we have sufficient information for this data to traverse through this actual physical link. So, now we need a device which can change this data. This data is visited data. As of now, although we have added IP address, MAC address, a lot of information, but in the end, it is nothing but bits. It is simply dealing with bits, if you see, from the previous perspective. Now, we need to transmit this sequence of bits over physical cables. Physical cables do not exist and bits. What do they exist? They exist in signals. So, now this digital data has to be transformed to analog data. So, now, whatever sequence of bits that we have, this is going to be transformed to either electrical signals or light signals. Whatever. And then this message finally reaches the destination. Does that make sense? Yes, sir. So, this is what is going to happen. So, these three layers are operating at the client side. After that, whatever we have, so this happens at your router. And then once it leads your router, once it leads your network, then you have a lot of subsequent data. So, this is not a lot of subsequent devices, which are going to simply check the MAC address, check whether this device itself is the destination of not. If not, what is the next part? What is the next MAC address? Add it forward. So, that is the whole routing thing that we have learned in future classes, but that routing is going to take place. As a result, in the end, these data packets are going to reach where the destination. And before it reaches the final circle, the data is going to reach the router or on a device. Because the data is reaching in the form of these electrical signals or these electromagnetic signals. Now, this data has to be converted back to digital data, back to a sequence of bits. And then from the sequence of bits, we need to understand what is the exact data inside these packets. So, now all of these layers are going to work in reverse order. It is now present in physical layer. From the physical layer, it goes to data link layer, which means this transformation happens. And the MAC addresses are straight off because it has already reached the destination. Then it goes to the network layer, I will need check happens. Descration IoT is actually a descration and source IP are now talking. Because now, going forward, source becomes the destination, destination becomes the source. You have to now send the data to the client. Then you have to make sense out of all of these packets. Now, TCP has to ensure that the data, the race and elimination has been done. It can also be written. It can not be merged into back to the original data. Then you go back to the original data, you decrypt it, you decode it, you can't the actual data format. And then based on the protocol, you prepare your response and you send it back to the client. The site makes it short. Yes or no? So this is the 70 year OSI one. This is the standardization which has been done. Does it need that all of these steps have to be done one after the other. Always not necessary. This is a convention. This is not a rule. Even if you don't follow the instance, even if you miss some of these even logical steps. You can say this is a way of modeling the behavior of internet. This is not a rule. And that is the reason why this is, we can say a much more detailed view of how internet works. But in practice, as I mentioned, these three layers since all of this work happens inside the browser. They are not treated as separate layers. This entire thing is treated as one single layer. And that layer is called the application layer. Application layer produces something known as a DPU data protocol unit. Then you have these segments, smaller segments, then you get packets. After the transport layer, you have these are called the network packets. And after you add the information on the MAC address, these packets are now called frames. So in every layer, there is a different normal user for the same thing because you are adding an extra layer of information on top of. So here, we are going to be called frames and then here they become base. Cements then or here before that you have DPU, then you have segments, then you have packets. And then finally, you have frame centers. It is not necessary that you follow all of them in the exact same model. Logically, this order has to be followed. Logically, the level of extraction has to be followed. This contract that we are talking about, that contract has to be followed. What is the contract? The contract is that these layers are a lot to come out. What is the technology used to transport the data? Whether you are using a line table, the optimal cable or whether you are using a copper wire, whether it is a thin copper wire, mesh wire, doesn't matter. These layers are going to be unaffected. They have to be agglosked about anything that has to come in the next steps. Is that making sense? They are going to create, so they have some type of data and they have complete visibility on what any of data has to be sent. Whether it is an image, whether it is a video, whether it is a text, whether it is a JSON. And this is that they are going to present it, they are going to encode it, decode it, they are going to have the visibility of the session, the time, time out, retry. But after this layer, once we have created a DPU and once the DPU is converted into segments, none of the layers is going to have the visibility of what exactly this data was. They don't care. This is obstruction. This layer, anything after this, they need not move. Whether we are transferring an image or a video or a text or a login. For them, it is just data. For them, they know that this is the data that has to be data means a sequence of bits, that's it. And if you see logically also, you have already broken it down. So this data is no longer an image or a video or a text. This is just partial sequence of bits. So for any of these layers, this abstraction has to be followed. They should not worry about what data is being transmitted. Does that make sense? Yes or no? Similarly, this layer, then the network layer, it need not worry about which protocol is being used in the previous layer. The previous layer might be using a TCP protocol or a UDP protocol. But the network layer is completely outskilled about it. It has absolutely nothing to do with the data transfer protocols. Network layer is only telling that, okay, this is the final destination where my packet should reach. This is the destination ID. This is how it has been structured. Network layer knows whether it is IPV4 or IPV6. What is IPV6? What is IPV4? Okay, so traditionally from the start, the IP address which we had created, which was created by Vincent Surf, it is a 32 bit non-stop. So from 0 to 255 numbers here, 0 to 256, 0 to 26 and so on. So the total number of combinations that we get is how much? Who is to power? Who is to power 30? Are these combinations are we going to get if you have 32 bits? Number of 1, I am not asking the largest when you are editing me. The number of combinations that we get. Who is to power 32? Who is to power 32 is how much? Who is to power 32 is the number, probably we are unable to comprehend. Because we do not see numbers as power of 2. We see numbers as power of 10. So if I have to approximate this to some power of 10, and should I have a 9? How do you do this approximation? So what you can do is the, this is when you are somewhere around as to power 9 because 1024, you can say is approximately 10 power 3. What is 1024? 2 power 10. So you can say 2 power 10 is approximately 10 power 3. Which takes this number as to power 20 approximately? 2 more than 20 is going to be somewhere around 10 power 3. So that is how we get this approximation. So 10 power 9 means what? 1 billion? How many internet users do we have right now? What is the worst population? So, world population is somewhere around 8 billion. Can we assume that around 50 to 60% users have internet access? Yes. So if we consider let's say 50% user that makes it 4 billion. All in every user would be using how many devices? Even if you consider 1 device per user that is still 4 billion. The maximum number of IP addresses that we can have is somewhere around 1 billion. So we have already crossed that. So we will not be able to allocate unique IP addresses to every single device. That is where we have, so this IP address is known as IPv4. But now we have IPv6 which gives you more bits to every device. IPv6 can generate so many combinations that even if you allocate a unique IP address to each and every grade of send present in the node, there are also a lot of IP addresses will still be unused. So right now we are sorted for the near future. But we don't know where exactly this technology goes. The speed with which AI is growing. We don't know how many new devices are going to be there. It's possible that every agent in future needs to have its own IP address. But as of now we are sorted. So that is why we have IPv4 and IPv6. Both of them are doing different protocols. So network layer has the visibility of whether it is IPv4, whether it is IPv6, how to decode it, how to use the IP address to figure out the correct route for this specific packet. That is the responsibility of only this thing. Whether we have used TCP in the previous layer or unique, this is going to work in the exact same way. It has nothing to do with TCP or unique. It has nothing to do with HTTP or SIP, does that means it's all of you? Yes or no? So this level of extraction has to be formed. Every year receives the data in a specific format, returns the data or forwards the data in a specific format to the next layer. Now it is possible that in your implementation you merge these two. It is possible that in your implementation you merge all these three. But you need to ensure that the next layer shouldn't be receiving the data in the form. And it has a deliver point. So if you are merging these two, then this layer needs to receive packets. If you are merging these three, then this layer needs to get frames, which will be converted to builds. Does that make sense? Yes or no? Okay, so again, as I said, this is a more detailed version. But in practice, the network layering model, which is followed, is also known as the TCP IP model, which is same as what was created by a consensus. And that's the reason why a consensus service or the father open tenant. Because that is the fact both of modern layer and tenant as well. So this TCP IP is very simple. It's just that the initial layers have been merged. So, TCP IP says that we have an application layer. This is the OSI model. Now in TCP IP, you are going to have these three together. This is the application layer. So application has to send some data. It does everything which we have discussed in all these three. In any order, it needs to do that. It could be browser, that is doing all of these things. Or different type of applications. Or the operating system might be helping out doing the encryption, doing the encoding. Whatever it takes, that will be done. And finally, this layer is going to generate the needs. So application layer, we got the first layer. After that, we have the second layer which is the transport layer. Same as what we have in the OSI model. Then the next layer is going to connect or going to send these packets to the internet. And since these were the creators of the internet, hence the show of calling. The same layer, network layer, they call it the internet layer. Or internet working layer. Once this is done, you have a linked layer which is basically, merger of this. So TCP IP says that you don't need to tie into this much of detail. You don't need different applications or particular programs to do all of this. Assume this as one single unit. Assume this as one single unit. And the remaining things are going to be as it is. Is that clear? So despite TCP IP being the model in practice. This layer is still referred as layer 7 by network engineers. So if you see in this model, this is layer 1, layer 2, layer 3 and layer 4. So ideally, it should be called a layer 4. But when a network engineer has to communicate that there is some flow, some bug in the application layer protocol. There is a layer 7 problem. Is that clear? Just a norm. There is some moment. It's very highly likely that none of you are going to become an network engineer. Because that requires different type of skill sets. That requires different type of domain expertise which you're not going to get here. You're going to be the application side. So you don't really need to worry about what is their normal thesis or their conditions. You just need to understand how the network is. Does that make sense? Yes or no? Okay, so I think how much time do we have? 30 minutes. Okay. Okay, so from the next step, please do remind me. So in the next class, we will be seeing. So first we'll see what all different devices are there. So if you remember, I mentioned that there are browsers, there are switches. There are n number of devices which are powering the network. We'll see that. And then we'll also see how the IP address and subnetting works. What is the structure of the IP address? I have added the book in your syllabus sheet. It is present right below the evaluation criteria in no number 10. So it is called reading some chapters from the book. I will also add some additional videos. There is a video which I had watched. When I was teaching computer networks to my college, when I was in college. And that video is still probably the best video which explains the history of being there. So I will add that as well in your syllabus sheet. Please do watch that video. Thank you.